<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" /><title>Introduction</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="css/OUP_epub_kindle.css" type="text/css" /></head><body><section class="chunk chapter" data-book-part-type="chapter" epub:type="introduction" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2" role="doc-introduction" aria-labelledby="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-h1-1">

    <header><h1 class="header chapter" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-h1-1"><span class="title chapter"><span aria-label="1" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-011" role="doc-pagebreak" title="1"></span>Introduction</span></h1><p class="subtitle chapter" epub:type="subtitle" role="doc-subtitle">The Conceptual Spaces of Theatre</p></header>
  




<blockquote class="disp-quote epigraph" data-content-type="epigraph" role="doc-epigraph" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-disp-quote-jyts-1">
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-1"></span>A Spell</p>
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-2"></span>An elongated and heightened (<i>Rest</i>). Denoted by repetition of figures’ names with no dialogue. Has sort of an architectural look:</p>
<div class="list simple" data-list-type="simple" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-list-jyts-1"><ul class="list simple unlabelled" data-list-type="simple" epub:type="list" role="list"><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para">Lincoln</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para">Booth</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para">Lincoln</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para">Booth</span>
</li></ul></div>
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-3"></span>This is a place where the figures experience their pure true simple state. While no action or stage business is necessary, directors should fill this moment as they best see fit.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-1" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-1"><sup>1</sup></a></p></blockquote>
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-4"></span>In her 2002 Pulitzer Prize–winning play, <i>Topdog/Underdog</i>, Suzan-Lori Parks describes, in this epigraph, what she calls “a spell,” which is to be used as an “unconventional theatrical element” (3). Lincoln and Booth, the play’s only two characters, are African American brothers and roommates named as such by their father, which “was his idea of a joke” (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-177" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-177">Parks 2001</a>: 24). Centered on the <i>hustle</i>—three-card monte (which I will revisit in the Conclusion)—Lincoln and Booth are trying to make ends meet in a racist and unforgiving world. Lincoln starts the play trying to survive through hard work in an honest, though ironic, job: dressing up as Abraham Lincoln to let people pretend to shoot him. Booth, however, is stealing to get <span aria-label="2" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-012" role="doc-pagebreak" title="2"></span>by. In the end, neither can escape the pull and the danger of three-card monte, with its promise of easy money, which leads to Booth prophetically killing Lincoln.</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-5"></span>In part stage direction, in part speech heading with no speeches/dialogue, these “spell[s]‌” provide the director and likely the actors with a creative vacuum to be filled in for performance, but also for the reader and their imagination. But these spells are unlike common stage directions, with stage directions the subject of the (recent and excellent) similarly titled book, <i>The Lines Between the Lines</i>, by Bess Rowen (2021). Normally, stage directions provide information not available to the readers or to the actors and directors that are needed to put on a performance (or imagine the play when reading it). To be utterly clear, this is not a book about stage directions. Instead, Parks’s “spell[s],” though, can only make sense based upon what we know from the rest of the play, itself, and as a conceptual empty space, the characters/“figures” in their “spell[s]” get to the heart of how theatre operates, begging two questions for this book: <i>What is the relationship between theatre’s words and the (conceptual) empty spaces between the lines?</i> and <i>How does this relationship play out with real bodies, in real space, moving through real time, both in performance and in the readers’ imaginations?</i></p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-6"></span>Building upon my previous work on the ontology of theatre (esp. <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146">Bennett 2017</a>) and the epistemology of theatre (esp. <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-19" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-19">Bennett 2012</a>, 2021), here I examine theatre through its (conceptual) empty spaces. As such, I will be culling previous ideas and combining them with many more new ones, the latter, especially, coming from the field of philosophical semantics, particularly the idea of subsumption. In thinking about the conceptual empty spaces of theatre, I will be investigating three main topics within this book: (1) <i>theatre as an art form</i>, (2) <i>the properties of theatrical characters and theatrical worlds</i>, and (3) <i>the difference between truth and truthfulness in the theatre</i>. Ultimately, this book aims to offer the first (contemporary) <i>systematic account of theatre</i>—thinking about theatre metaphysically, epistemologically, and ethically (the last, only in terms of value).</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-7"></span><span aria-label="3" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-013" role="doc-pagebreak" title="3"></span>While this book is not attempting to describe <i>why</i> an object is considered art, to better understand theatre, it may be helpful to begin by asking, what types of objects are (considered to be) art?<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-2" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-2"><sup>2</sup></a> Let us begin with a working list that excludes theatre, for just a second:</p>
<div class="list simple" data-list-type="simple" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-list-jyts-2"><ul class="list simple unlabelled" data-list-type="simple" epub:type="list" role="list"><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-8"></span><i>Word</i>-based art (e.g., literature, poetry, film, television, etc.)</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-9"></span><i>Sound</i>-based art (e.g., lyrical music, instrumental music, electronic music, etc.)</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-10"></span><i>Body</i>-based art (e.g., dance, some performance art, etc.)</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-11"></span><i>Image</i>-based art (e.g., painting, sculpture, photography, etc.)</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-12"></span><i>Object</i>-based art (e.g., architecture, design, etc.)</span>
</li></ul></div>
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-13"></span>First, let me be the first to acknowledge that there is, of course, plenty of overlap among these categories. But categorizing and labeling are important in regard to art, in some part, precisely so artists can push against the previously established norms and against the very categories and labels that were created or changed on account of a (somewhat imaginary) catalog of previous pieces of art.</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-14"></span>One key and important feature of theatre, to turn to our subject at hand, is that theatre often incorporates all of the main features of other art forms:</p>
<div class="list simple" data-list-type="simple" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-list-jyts-3"><ul class="list simple unlabelled" data-list-type="simple" epub:type="list" role="list"><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-15"></span><i>Word</i>-based art (e.g., speeches in theatre)</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-16"></span><i>Sound</i>-based art (e.g., sound and/or musical score in theatre)</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-17"></span><i>Body</i>-based art (e.g., actors in theatre)</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-18"></span><i>Image</i>-based art (e.g., scenic design in theatre)</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-19"></span><i>Object</i>-based art (e.g., props in theatre)</span>
</li></ul></div>
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-20"></span>But this is not what, necessarily, makes theatre unique. What makes theatre unique among various art forms is that so much of the art form is not <i>in</i> the art, itself, but is a product or, maybe, a by-product of the art. That is not to say that the text is the art and the performance of a text is the practice of the art, per se, but that <span aria-label="4" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-014" role="doc-pagebreak" title="4"></span>within both of these, the fleshing out of the art happens by what is not specified in the art itself. That is, <i>much of theatre resides between the lines</i>.</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-21"></span>Above, I used “between the lines” in a figurative manner. However, to be more explicit in my claims, the only tangible remnants from the dramatic text in performance are the spoken words/speeches of each character. And while there are stage directions in the play, if even followed, the viewers of a play may or may not know they exist in the play. However, and to somewhat contrast with W. B. Worthen’s view that the words of a play are a “tool” or instrument for performance,<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-3" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-3"><sup>3</sup></a> most of the viewing experience is not simply an auditory one that centers on the spoken words that populate the majority of the written play. Real bodies, in real space, doing real actions make up the majority of theatrical performance. And this is true, too, to a degree in the reading process of drama, where the reader imagines real bodies, in real space, doing real action based upon just words (and in the reading process you get the benefit of some stage directions). That is, the words of the play are only a part of the production and the reading of the play, and this is rather unique among various art forms, as the play originates from the dramatic text, which is also an integral part of theatre, and it can be enjoyed on its own. This is one place where theatre departs from film, as screenplays are not read by the average filmgoer, whereas it is much more likely that a theatregoer may have read the play.</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-22"></span>To investigate theatre and its in-between spaces, this book will introduce some basic ideas about <i>coherence</i> and <i>correspondence</i> and, much more prominently, conversations surrounding <i>subsumption</i> and <i>distinctness</i> to better describe the art form. Instead of limiting the concept and use of subsumption to suggest that <i>constituent parts</i> are subsumed within a distinct whole (as is done in philosophical semantics, from where subsumption comes from), here in this book, I broaden the concept to claim that many of the <i>properties</i> of a theatrical character and/or a theatrical world <span aria-label="5" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-015" role="doc-pagebreak" title="5"></span>are subsumed within the text. Unlike how fiction has a narrator that generally describes the properties of literary characters, theatre (particularly for the theatregoer) is largely devoid of distinct properties attributed to theatrical characters. Outside of the fact that character x says “_______” and does _______, with its corresponding properties being, character x has the properties of <i>being the speaker of “</i>_______<i>”</i> and <i>being the doer of</i> _______, there are few, if any, specified properties regarding theatrical characters and/or theatrical worlds. But, of course, it is difficult (though not impossible) to argue that theatrical characters (and/or theatrical worlds) do not have properties associated with them. Thinking about how the study of properties is also one of relations, along these same lines, I will examine, too, how objects are re-positioned with/against one another to create (or “re-create”) fictional objects in the theatre to offer a novel way to make sense of what is and what is not specified in theatre.</p> 
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-sec-1"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-23"></span>Organization of the Book</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-24"></span>In short, Part I (i.e., <a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-4.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-4_2">Chapters 1</a>–<a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7_1">4</a>) lays out the claims of the book; Part II (i.e., <a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-9.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-9_3">Chapters 5</a>–<a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-11.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-11_2">7</a>) provides specific cases where the conceptual empty spaces in theatre beg further investigation. Part I moves from (1) noting how theatre has previously been conceived, to (2) describing the nature of theatre, to (3) describing the nature of viewing theatre, and finally to (4) describing the empty spaces of theatre (both ontologically and epistemologically). In Part II, <a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-9.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-9_4">Chapter 5</a> deals with <i>distinct</i> facts and the spaces in between those facts: speeches in theatre and historical facts in history plays. <a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-10.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-10_1">Chapter 6</a> looks at what is <i>subsumed</i> by the theatrical text: which properties are intrinsic and/or extrinsic to theatrical characters and offstage characters. And <a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-11.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-11_3">Chapter 7</a> examines not necessarily what is true in theatre but what is <i>truthful</i>: imagined objects and truthfulness in acting. While the issues explored in each chapter in Part <span aria-label="6" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-016" role="doc-pagebreak" title="6"></span>II originate with distinctness, subsumption, and truthfulness, respectively, there are many overlapping discussions across all three chapters. This book closes with a Conclusion about constants and variables in games, the rules of engagement in theatre, and finally how theatre promotes curious behaviors.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-25"></span>Again, over the course of the four chapters that comprise “Part I: Pieces of Theatre: Defining Theatre and Its Empty Spaces,” I lay out the overarching claims of the book. In <a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-4.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-4_3">Chapter 1</a>, I turn to the nature of theatre and how previous scholars, thinkers, and philosophers have categorized and understood this art form. I trace the history of definitions (and categorizations) from Plato and Aristotle to the present day.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-26"></span><a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5_3">Chapter 2</a> is concerned with the ontology of theatre. This chapter re-examines my previously developed claims that theatrical characters (all the way up to theatrical worlds) are a type of abstract object that I call a “re-creation.” Re-creation explains the ontological status of theatre and is similar to D. M. Armstrong’s recombinatorial possibilia. But to these previous claims, I also want to add another dimension, one that takes into account a larger range of performances: “re-positioned objects.” That is, re-creation does not do as adequate a job alone in explaining performances that are less story-book-like. Many theatrical performances (broadly conceived) only examine existent objects, but they do so from previously unexplored vantage points. In this chapter, I examine this relational-recombinatorial view of theatre by thinking about metaphor, representation, and presentation. In the first section of this chapter, “Metaphor in Theatre,” I examine one of the most fundamental devices in the arts: metaphor. Along with simile and allegory, metaphor forms the backbone of fiction, broadly conceived. This chapter will examine how metaphor has been conceived. Further, this chapter will also look at how we can better conceive metaphor to describe more accurately what is happening in theatre through re-creation. This chapter will raise the point that if a metaphor referred, or were likened, to a referent(s) <span aria-label="7" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-017" role="doc-pagebreak" title="7"></span>outside of the text, then it becomes an allegory and/or an analogy. However, literature—broadly defined to include fiction, drama (and theatre), and poetry—works precisely because there is <i>no specific</i> referent or likening. It is also precisely because of the <i>loose</i> connection between a word and its cluster of associations that <i>fiction</i> (versus a description of reality) can occur. In the second part, “Representation in Theatre,” I look at how theatre employs representation. While <i>metaphor</i> largely makes use of re-creation, much of <i>representation</i> in the theatre makes use of the re-positioning of objects to help us better understand and explore something true and/or truthful. This chapter looks back at the literature surrounding theatre as a representational art form to demonstrate how representation works in the theatre. That is, this chapter will suggest that the concept described earlier of re-positioned objects/ideas creates the intellectual thrust of representation in the theatre and how it operates. And in the final section, “Presentation in Theatre,” I look at <i>presentation</i> in the theatre, and cases of it, where elements of re-creation and re-positioning sit side by side. Presentation, it will be claimed, adopts the techniques and tools from both metaphor and representation to <i>show</i> (something). Presentation is where much of performance art falls, as well as, often, one-person shows.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-27"></span><a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6_2">Chapter 3</a> is concerned with the epistemology of theatre. Much of this is culled from my last book, <i>The Problems of Viewing Performance: Epistemology and Other Minds</i> (2021). Here, I streamline the concept, for this book’s present purposes, of individual and group triangulation that is needed to understand a performance, as witnessed by two or more viewers. I turn to ideas about Bayesian epistemology to explain how different viewers of a performance do not share the same experiences. That is, while performance may be a public event, performance is not a shared individual experience, as viewers not only come in with differing amounts and types of knowledge but also will be looking for different amounts and types of information during the performance. Given that I claim a piece <span aria-label="8" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-018" role="doc-pagebreak" title="8"></span>of theatre never really ends, I discuss how theatre is a living document and a malleable idea.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-28"></span><a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7_2">Chapter 4</a> adds the idea to examine theatre through its empty spaces by thinking through theatre through the here-revised concepts of subsumption and distinctness as used in philosophical semantics. What makes theatre so unique among various art forms is that so much of the art form is not <i>in</i> the art itself but is a product or by-product of the art. That is not to say that the text is the art and the performance of a text is the practice of the art, per se, but that within both of these, the fleshing out of the art happens by what is not specified in the art itself. That is, <i>much of theatre resides between the lines</i>. The main idea here is that all of the <i>properties</i> of all characters and the theatrical worlds have to be located somewhere, even though most of those properties are not distinctly stated in the spoken words of a theatrical performance. To investigate theatre and its in-between spaces, this book will introduce conversations in philosophical semantics surrounding <i>subsumption</i> and <i>distinctness</i>. Broadening the concept and use of subsumption past the way it is understood and used in philosophical semantics, where it is claimed that <i>constituent parts</i> are subsumed within a distinct whole, I claim that many of the <i>properties</i> of a theatrical character and/or a theatrical world are subsumed within the text. I claim that there are three <i>types of properties</i> associated with theatrical characters and worlds: <i>distinct properties</i>, <i>subsumed properties</i>, and <i>truthful properties</i>. That is, theatrical characters have properties that go beyond what is in the text, and that these properties are derived—via entailment, actual generic connections, and/or whole/parts connections—from the text in combination with facts about the actual world.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-29"></span>The second part of the book, “Part II: Spaces of Theatre: Offstage Characters, Imagined Objects, and Other Prickly Philosophical Problems,” looks at specific and special situations or cases that relate to the blank spaces of theatre surrounding questions of, primarily, ontology and epistemology: in essence, Part II applies <span aria-label="9" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-019" role="doc-pagebreak" title="9"></span>the claims from <a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5_4">Chapters 2</a>–<a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7_3">4</a> to examine a number of prickly problems in the theatre that are related to issues surrounding distinctness, subsumption, and truthfulness. <a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-9.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-9_5">Chapter 5</a>, “Distinctness in the Theatre: Theatrical Language as Events,” I look at the language uttered in the play, as, in addition to what the characters <i>do</i>, what the characters <i>say</i> constitutes one of the few distinct facts found in a play. This chapter examines particular language usage in theatre using William Shakespeare’s <i>Hamlet</i> and the play within the play, <i>The Murder of Gonzago</i>, as a case study. This essay argues that theatrical utterances constitute a special case of language usage not previously elucidated: the utterance of a statement with propositional content in theatre functions as an event. In short, the propositional content of a particular p (e.g., <i>p</i><sub>1</sub>, <i>p</i><sub>2</sub>, <i>p</i><sub>3</sub> . . .), whether or not it is true, is only understood—and understood to be true—if <i>p</i><sub>1</sub> is uttered in a particular time, place, and situation (i.e., during a theatrical event); otherwise, the propositional content in those theatrical utterances can either be false or contingently true. A history play, or a play that invokes historical events, is generally based upon a set of distinct facts, often about an object (often a person) and/or an event. Outside of those usually quite limited number of distinct facts (dates, names, such and such events, etc.), most of the truthfulness of a play comes from a set of subsumed properties that are not (necessarily) <i>true</i>, but display, rather, truthfulness.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-30"></span>Thinking about what is true and contained in the play and what is not true and not contained in the play, <a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-10.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-10_2">Chapter 6</a>, “Subsumption in the Theatre: The Question of Lady Bracknell’s Nose and Offstage Characters,” claims that theatre problematizes intrinsic and extrinsic properties in the theatre. David Friedell has recently discussed the relationship between intrinsic and extrinsic properties of art, specifically in music. Friedell claims that normative social rules dictate who can change the intrinsic or extrinsic properties of a piece of music. I claim that in text-based theatre—as a particular art form—the dividing line between intrinsic and extrinsic properties of a play is sometimes tenuous. This tenuousness <span aria-label="10" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-020" role="doc-pagebreak" title="10"></span>is due to a play’s bifurcated existence as a dramatic text and as many theatrical performances. Moving from investigating the truth found in a play to thinking about a problematic character type, I examine a problem case that the offstage character poses for conversations surrounding indeterminate identity. In claiming that abstract creationism can be committed to indeterminate identity, David Friedell (2019) has recently argued against R. Woodward’s (2017) claim that while there is such a thing as indeterminate reference, there is no indeterminate identity. Friedell (2019) suggests that whether fictional realism entails that there is indeterminate identity depends upon what fictional characters are. In this chapter, I claim that there is indeterminate identity in fictional characters, suggesting that the case of theatre is important to consider when discussing both indeterminate identity and the ontology of fictional characters. I will do this, then, by considering another case of a fictional character: the offstage character in theatre. I would like to join this conversation—which, thus far, has mostly focused on largely generic fictional entities—by claiming that examining theatre’s most famous offstage character, Godot, in Samuel Beckett’s <i>Waiting for Godot</i> (1954), presents a somewhat different problem case about indeterminate identity. In this chapter, I examine indeterminate identity, not by asking whether two characters can be identical, but by claiming that it is indeterminate whether the offstage character, Godot, can correspond to multiple fictional entities.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-31"></span>While the character of Godot exists as something of an abstract object, there are things that do not exist in the play that are of vital importance to the experience of a play. In <a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-11.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-11_4">Chapter 7</a>, “Truthfulness in the Theatre: Actor and Acting and Imagined Objects,” I examine how theatre relies and deals with imagination. Beginning by asking, “Who is Hamlet?” which is a question that has, for centuries, been asked and never fully (or satisfactorily) been definitively answered, what if, rather, we ask, “Who <i>cannot</i> be Hamlet?” By thinking about acting and the character through the concepts of <i>subsumption</i> and <i>distinctness</i> (as used in philosophical semantics), this chapter is <span aria-label="11" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-021" role="doc-pagebreak" title="11"></span>not trying to define a theatrical character by way of the negative. What asking this question does do, rather, is create a spectrum where “Who <i>is</i> Hamlet?” and “Who <i>cannot be</i> Hamlet?” are the two poles that contain distinct properties (that either distinctly define who Hamlet is or are properties that are distinctly <i>not</i>-Hamlet). But these two poles are less of the concern of this essay, as between these poles (i.e., on this spectrum), however, I claim, are all the <i>subsumed properties</i> within the character of Hamlet. Investigating the subsumed properties of a character helps thread the needle between something that is necessarily <i>true</i> versus something that is <i>truthful</i>. In <i>The Art of Theater</i> (2007), James R. Hamilton suggests that by understanding precedence and projecting salient features of the performance—and by understanding that everyone else is doing the same thing—that spectators all come to possess a rough common knowledge of the same events. While Hamilton (and the work, too, of Jerrold Levinson, Tzachi Zamir, and Noël Carroll) aids in the understanding of a <i>concrete</i> object, what about the uninvestigated spaces of theatrical stages that have not been experienced and/or do not exist, except in the imagination of, say, audience members? It is not just, for example, offstage characters that are caught in the crosshairs of the imagination of the different viewers; so, too, whether passively or actively, the empty spaces of the stage are often filled in more completely by imagination. Importantly, multiple viewers are all doing this, too.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-32"></span>I conclude by thinking ethically—about value in, and the value of, theatre—in “<i>Teatri Topia</i> for the Curious: Constants, Variables, Play, and Theatre’s Rules of Engagement,” by suggesting that because of the many empty conceptual spaces in theatre that both participating in and watching theatre require and encourage curious behaviors. In investigating what curiosity is and how theatre helps develop individually and societally needed curious behaviors, I liken theatre to some games that are found in some well-known plays (e.g., card games, chess, etc.). Despite objections raised, and that curiosity has mostly been seen as a mental process <span aria-label="12" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-2-target-022" role="doc-pagebreak" title="12"></span>or drive by philosophers, psychologists, and neuroscientists, I claim that curiosity refers to a <i>cluster of different behaviors</i> that are all loosely connected to the creation and/or acquisition of knowledge. By thinking about how the blank spaces of theatre require both participants and viewers to create and/or acquire knowledge, I conclude by considering how theatre, itself, promotes curious behaviors.</p></div>
</section></body></html><!--This epub package was generated by the OUP JYTS Application version 12.0 on 2024/08/19 22:16:06 Using  OUP Academic ePub style and the following user options: chunkLevel=chapter, addTitlePage=no, addCopyrightPage=no, addKeytermsList=no, addIllustrationsList=yes, addTablesList=yes, addVideosList=yes, addAudiosList=yes, addEndPageIllustrations=no, scaleImages=yes, addDataSmil=no, displayContribList=no, addGlossRevLink=no, addTextPopOver=no, addInlineframe=No, addInlineAudio=no, addAnswerShowHide=no, addHintShowHide=no -->