<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" /><title>Glossary of Terms and Concepts</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="css/OUP_epub_kindle.css" type="text/css" /></head><body><section class="chunk glossary" data-book-part-type="glossary" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14" role="doc-glossary">

<header><h1 class="header glossary"><span class="title glossary"><span aria-label="150" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-0160" role="doc-pagebreak" title="150"></span><span aria-label="151" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-0161" role="doc-pagebreak" title="151"></span>Glossary of Terms and Concepts</span></h1></header>
  


<div class="def-list" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-list-jyts-1"><dl>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Abstract object</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-1">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-6"></span>An “abstract object” is <i>immaterial</i>; it may, or may not, exist.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Coherence (coherence theory of truth)</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-2">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-7"></span>The truth of a statement or a belief can only be judged in terms of how well it coheres with other held statements or beliefs, and as such, truth is thought of as degrees of truth.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Concrete object</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-3">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-8"></span>A “concrete object,” and a “concrete action,” have a <i>material</i> reality.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Correspondence (correspondence theory of truth)</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-4">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-9"></span>The correspondence theory of truth holds that something is true if it corresponds with a fact and/or a state of affairs.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Degrees of belief</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-5">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-10"></span>Also known as <i>credences</i>, a degree of belief is how strongly a particular belief is held to be true.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Experiences</dt> <dd class="def"><dl class="list" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-list-jyts-2"><div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Individual (experience)</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-7">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-11"></span>An “individual experience” is one’s <i>own experience</i> of an action/object.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Private (experience)</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-8">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-12"></span>A “private experience” is a <i>singular and unique experience</i> an individual has to an action/object.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Public (experience)</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-9">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-13"></span>A “public experience” is when <i>two or more people experience the same action/object</i>.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Shared (experience)</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-10">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-14"></span>A “shared experience” is <i>when two or more individuals have the same individual experience</i> when experiencing the same action/object.</span></dd></div></dl></dd></div>

<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Extrinsic properties</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-11">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-15"></span>Extrinsic properties are all the properties of an object that are not intrinsic properties.<span aria-label="152" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-0162" role="doc-pagebreak" title="152"></span></span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Intrinsic properties</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-12">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-16"></span>Via David Friedell, via David Lewis, “A thing has its intrinsic properties in virtue of the way that thing itself, and nothing else, is.”</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Parallax</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-13">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-17"></span>When viewing (broadly defined) a concrete object or action (broadly defined), “parallax” is the (inherent) resultant error that is due to one’s <i>perspective</i> (broadly defined).</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Performance</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-14">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-18"></span>“Performance” refers to <i>the entirety of an artistic idea and its material enactment(s)</i>. “Performance,” then, subsumes “theatre” as a broader term. That is, traditionally, “theatre” refers to the combination of a dramatic text and the performance of a dramatic text; “performance” is broader in that it still holds the category of “theatre” within but also works for the category of non-text-based performance. Further, using this idea that performance refers to the entirety of an artistic idea and its material enactment(s), performance casts a broader net, here subsuming other art forms like film and television (as well as more traditional “performing arts” like dance, opera, music, etc.).</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Performance event</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-15">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-19"></span>A “performance event” is a specific and singular enactment of a performance. “Performance events” are specific instances of a performance, often localized and restricted to a specific time and space/place.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Performance text</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-16">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-20"></span>A “performance text” refers to a written text that sets the rules and/or guidelines for a performance event. Note: Not all “performances” have a “performance text.”</span></dd></div>

  <div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Properties (in the theatre)</dt> <dd class="def"><dl class="list" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-list-jyts-3"><div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Distinct properties</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-18">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-22"></span>Distinct properties are found explicitly in the dramatic text and are necessarily <i>true.</i></span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Subsumed properties</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-19">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-23"></span><i>Subsumed properties</i> are derived from the distinct properties that are explicit in the dramatic text, and these properties, which can be true, are derived properties (i.e., derived by entailment, other generic facts, and/or interpretation and/or triangulation).</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term"><span aria-label="153" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-0163" role="doc-pagebreak" title="153"></span>Truthful properties</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-20">
  <span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-24"></span><i>Truthful properties</i> are a type of subsumed properties that may or may not be <i>truly</i> applied to a character (i.e., they may even be <i>falsely</i> applied to a character) and may not be derived from any of these ways, but yet these subsumed properties speak to something <i>truthful</i> about theatrical characters and/or theatrical worlds. A truthful property contains at least one truth, even if the overall state of that object is false. These properties may be thought of as <i>truthful suggestions</i>. They are derived by relations in the text that are weaker than entailment, namely <i>textual assertions that do not necessarily fit the actual world</i> or by <i>truthful suggestions</i> that are not implied by any of the aforementioned ways, but yet simply <i>make sense</i>, if you will, or <i>can</i> make sense.</span></dd></div></dl></dd></div>

<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Proposition</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-21">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-25"></span>A semi-technical term that has broad and different usage in philosophy; here, I will be using it to refer to the thought content of a statement that can be true or false.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Re-creation (re-created object)</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-22">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-26"></span><i>Re-creation</i> describes both the process and the abstract object that comes into being through a recombination and/or unique cluster of actually existing, concrete and/or abstract objects, where we can call the resultant object a <i>re-created object</i>.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Re-positioning (re-positioned object)</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-23">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-27"></span><i>Re-positioning</i> describes the process by which actually existing objects are viewed/presented in a manner that explore novel relations among its constituent parts. The resultant object that is viewed/presented is a <i>re-positioned object</i>.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Superimpose</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-24">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-28"></span>To “superimpose” is to layer and overlap beliefs, justified beliefs, justified true beliefs, and knowledge from numerous individual perspectives to create a more accurate objective understanding of a concrete object or action (broadly defined). “Superimposition” lessens the parallax (i.e., the error caused by observing/experiencing an object from a unique perspective).</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term"><span aria-label="154" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-0164" role="doc-pagebreak" title="154"></span>Transworld identity</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-25">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-29"></span>Transworld identity is the nature of identity across possible worlds. For something to have transworld identity means it has the same identity across all possible worlds.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Triangulate</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-26">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-30"></span>In the most literal sense, “triangulating” describes the process of the superimposition of beliefs, justified beliefs, and knowledge about an object in situations where <i>three</i> minds are all experiencing the same object. More broadly, “triangulation” simply means superimposing the experiences of <i>more than two</i> minds.</span></dd></div>
  <div class="def-item"><dt class="term" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-term-27"><a href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-4.xhtml#Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-term-27" role="doc-backlink">Truth</a></dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-27">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-31"></span>Truth is the state of something being true (versus being false).</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Truthfulness</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-28">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-32"></span>Truthfulness is the state of something containing at least one truth, even if the overall state of something is false.</span></dd></div>
<div class="def-item"><dt class="term">Viewer(s)</dt> 
<dd class="def" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-def-29">
<span class="defPara"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-14-target-33"></span>A “viewer” is an individual who attends (or attended) a performance event. “Viewers” refers to a group of individuals (i.e., viewer<sub>1</sub> + viewer<sub>2</sub> + viewer<sub>3</sub>, etc.), all of whom attend a particular performance event. The focus here in not on viewing, specifically, as a visual process, but as the <i>mental contemplation</i> (of an object).</span></dd></div></dl></div></section></body></html><!--This epub package was generated by the OUP JYTS Application version 12.0 on 2024/08/19 22:16:06 Using  OUP Academic ePub style and the following user options: chunkLevel=chapter, addTitlePage=no, addCopyrightPage=no, addKeytermsList=no, addIllustrationsList=yes, addTablesList=yes, addVideosList=yes, addAudiosList=yes, addEndPageIllustrations=no, scaleImages=yes, addDataSmil=no, displayContribList=no, addGlossRevLink=no, addTextPopOver=no, addInlineframe=No, addInlineAudio=no, addAnswerShowHide=no, addHintShowHide=no -->