<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" /><title>3 The Nature of Viewing Theatre</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="css/OUP_epub_kindle.css" type="text/css" /></head><body><section class="chunk chapter" data-book-part-type="chapter" epub:type="chapter" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6" role="doc-chapter">

<header><h1 class="header chapter"><span class="label chapter"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-1"></span><span aria-label="55" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-065" role="doc-pagebreak" title="55"></span>3</span> <span class="title chapter">The Nature of Viewing Theatre</span></h1></header>
  




<blockquote class="disp-quote epigraph" data-content-type="epigraph" role="doc-epigraph" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-disp-quote-jyts-7">
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-2"></span><i>No man ever steps in the same river twice, for it is not the same river, and he is not the same man.</i></p>
<div class="source" role="doc-credit"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-3"></span>—Heraclitus</div></blockquote>
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-4"></span>Now that I have outlined and explicated my claims as to what theatre <i>is</i>, the question becomes, How do we go about <i>viewing</i> theatrical objects? That is, I have claimed that theatre is composed of, and refers to, a group of abstract objects that I call re-created objects and re-positioned objects that are relayed through metaphor, representation, and presentation. So how do we, as both readers and/or audience members, make sense of those objects that we see in the theatre? While viewing a performance may seem like a straightforward activity, how is it that we walk away from viewing the same event with different experiences?</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-5"></span>I have previously relayed the parable “The Blind Men and the Elephant” to demonstrate some of the epistemological problems of viewing a performance. In the generic version of this parable, each blind man touches a different part of an elephant and, thus, has a much different view (or understanding) of what an elephant is. This is analogous to what happens in the theatre, not just over the course of a single viewing or performance, but over the course of the life of a piece of theatre. The question must be asked like this: How do audience members come to different understandings and have different experiences when all (seemingly) experience the same observational data when watching a performance?</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-6"></span>Unlike, say, knowledge about who is playing character Y, while all the following are understood based upon the same concrete events, <span aria-label="56" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-066" role="doc-pagebreak" title="56"></span>most of these other things that we usually think of as knowledge of a performance, instead, fall into the realm of, more broadly, <i>justified belief</i>: intonation of spoken lines (e.g., Was the line “whispered” or “murmured audibly”?); feelings of the characters that the actors project (e.g., Was the character “angry” or “incensed”?); mood created by the lighting design (e.g., Was the lighting projecting a “bleak” or a “dark” mood?); and, among many other examples, gesture (e.g., Was the arm “thrusted” or “whipped out”?). The questions raised by these parenthetical examples of justified beliefs about a performance event are two-fold: (1) Are these examples of <i>justified beliefs</i> or examples of <i>justified true beliefs</i>?<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-23" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-23"><sup>1</sup></a> and (2) Can two or more people hold different justified true beliefs about the same event? In short, if someone holds a justified belief that the lighting of a particular performance was “bleak” and another holds a justified belief that the lighting of the same performance was “dark,” can/do they both simultaneously hold justified true beliefs about the lighting design of this same performance event (even though their beliefs are different)?</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-7"></span>I am not sure that this book has precise answers to these two specific questions, but these questions do seem to muddy the waters between observational data and the interpretation of that observational data. That is, if one “thrusted” an arm or “whipped out” an arm, is there an observational difference between the two actions? Can an arm be straightened quickly in two different ways: a way that it is “thrusted” versus a way that it is “whipped out”? And could, in isolating the movement of the arm, anyone perceive the difference between those two, and/or is there any difference between the two? (Try the following yourself as you read this: try to “thrust” your arm out and then try to “whip out” your arm. Is there any difference, and/or could an outside observer notice a difference between those two movements? [Conceptually, I can fully understand the two movements as different and distinct, but I, personally, cannot discern any difference of feel or of look when I try to do this myself.]) Or is merely the circumstances of <span aria-label="57" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-067" role="doc-pagebreak" title="57"></span>the viewer as to why one viewer holds that it was “thrusted” and another holds that it was “whipped out”? That is, if an arm is extended quickly, can it not both be true that it was “thrusted” and/or “whipped out”? Therefore, can it not also be the case that both viewers hold two different justified true beliefs about the same observational data?</p>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-sec-44"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-8"></span><i>Projecting</i> “Degrees of Belief”</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-9"></span>The purpose of relaying the parable “The Blind Men and the Elephant” was to demonstrate how understanding is both subjective and not uniform in an audience, and thus, viewing performance, while a public event, may not be a shared experience. But what happens if we repeat the “Blind Men and the Elephant” scenario over and over again with changing and/or rotating participants? That is, some blind men may be confronting one part of the elephant for the first time, while others may be revisiting the same part of the elephant or experiencing a different part of the elephant than they have experienced before.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-10"></span>Whether it is the first time one of these blind men is touching the elephant or the tenth time, each additional stroke of the elephant yields additional information for each blind man, be it new information or confirmation and/or rejection of previous knowledge/justified beliefs/beliefs. As a group, considering the blind men as a whole, all of these additional pieces of information from the blind men with different experiences yield a more complete understanding of an elephant after consulting with one another and past blind men who also felt the same elephant. It is one thing to try to understand the experience after the event and with the help of others (though with different degrees of belief). However, what happens during the experience of the event? How does understanding change and/or become more accurate with added information through the passage of time? If we take this same group of <span aria-label="58" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-068" role="doc-pagebreak" title="58"></span>blind men, each additional stroke gives more clues as to what the future strokes of the elephant might be like.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-11"></span>To return to our arm that is “thrusted” or “whipped out,” would it not be the case that the first time you tried this experiment, you would feel and observe no difference? But is it possible that with practice, a highly skilled mover—a professional dancer, for example—could do these two movements, and maybe a professional dance critic, for example, could see the difference? I cannot tell the difference between a pianist at a house of worship playing a piece versus a true virtuoso playing the same material, just as I cannot hear the difference between when I hit a single key on a piano versus when my aunt, a former professional, hits a single note, versus when a true world-class virtuoso hits a single key. I cannot discern a difference at all, but my aunt certainly can. Therefore, just like our blind men touching the elephant, the <i>circumstances</i> matter.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-12"></span>Without trying to bring up questions of <i>authority</i>, as that further muddies the waters, this raises another prospect: <i>accuracy</i>.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-24" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-24"><sup>2</sup></a> Would it not, <i>likely</i>, be the case that the blind man touching the elephant for the one hundredth time might be more <i>accurate</i> about the elephant than the first time one of our blind men ever touches an elephant? (A parallel, of course, is that my aunt will hear things and nuances in a piano performance that I would never even hear and/or notice.) If I am a complete newbie to something, I may not know enough to know that I do not know that others can know more. But with increased exposure, I both learn increasingly that I know less and others can know more. Therefore, part of the equation is whether one knows enough to know whether their own beliefs based upon their own observations are justified or not. The other part, however, is to what degree can they be justified or certain?</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-13"></span>The implication here is that there remains the following question when there is disagreement: Is knowledge that is received by observational data (1) a matter of objectivity, which some understand and some misunderstand? or (2) a matter that is, ultimately, of interpretation? I am not suggesting that a concrete reality does <span aria-label="59" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-069" role="doc-pagebreak" title="59"></span>not exist, but there is the question as to whether, given all of our differing circumstances, we can ever have the same knowledge of the same concrete reality or, related and more relevant to this book, have the same experience of the same concrete reality. I am not sure I am fully prepared in this book to make a definitive assertion one way or the other, but I hope that the case of theatre and performance will help us get to a better place—into a better position and circumstance—in which to answer this fundamental question.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-14"></span>Again, as I have claimed that much of what we view at a performance event is based upon, not only knowledge, but beliefs and, importantly, justified beliefs and justified true beliefs, this parable, “The Blind Men and the Elephant,” is quite relevant to theatre and performance because the principles of vagueness are inherent in performance (especially in the case of text-based theatre).<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-25" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-25"><sup>3</sup></a> There are <i>constants</i> (e.g., the lines laid out in the dramatic text) and <i>variables</i> (e.g., the variety of performance choices) that are continually <i>projected</i> forward. Both the performers and the viewers project their beliefs (of various degrees of certainty) to be more certain of what is before them (with objects that do not present themselves as black-and-white, true-or-false, objective facts).</p></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-sec-45"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-15"></span>Performance and Bayesian Epistemology</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-16"></span>Once we introduce this idea of <i>projecting variables</i> (or projecting beliefs), to understand concrete objects and/or actions, we fall into the realm discussing the “probability calculus,” central to Bayesian statistics (it sounds utterly daunting, and it <i>can</i> be <i>extremely</i> technical, but the basic concepts, without the need for any math, are quite simple). Developed out of a famous mathematical theorem about probability by Reverend Thomas Bayes (1701–1761), Bayesian statistics and probability calculus are based upon the concept of <i>betting behavior</i>, which is “the inclination to accept and reject bets according to our degrees of belief.”<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-26" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-26"><sup>4</sup></a> By extending this idea <span aria-label="60" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-070" role="doc-pagebreak" title="60"></span>to philosophy, in the field of “Bayesian epistemology,”<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-27" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-27"><sup>5</sup></a> the “probability calculus is especially suited to represent degrees of belief (or <i>credences</i>) and to deal with questions of belief change, confirmation, evidence, justification, and coherence.”<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-28" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-28"><sup>6</sup></a> This idea of measuring one’s betting behavior based upon one’s “degrees of belief” is especially relevant to performance since, as I have suggested that performance <i>projects a counterfactual</i> (versus a <i>fact</i>), Bayesian ideas about probability and the conditions of viewing become important here because the audience is constantly being exposed new information, and while knowledge changes, so, too, does one’s degrees of belief. However, further, there must remain opposing senses and/or feelings of <i>plausibility</i> and of <i>surprise</i>. That is, as the performance goes on, the viewer should continually possess the belief that something <i>might</i> or <i>could</i> happen,<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-29" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-29"><sup>7</sup></a> or else there is generally little pleasure in the viewing process if the viewer’s expectations of what is going to happen are constantly met (i.e., the performance becomes <i>predictable</i>). In short, without the need to get into the weeds of logic and mathematics, engaging with general insights from Bayesian epistemology helps explain why viewers have different experiences while viewing the same observational data.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-17"></span>For simple purposes of reference, in order to explain the fundamentals of the Bayesian “probability calculus,” I use the following formula (based upon the “Simple Principle of Conditionalization”): <i>P</i><sub>new</sub>(<i>A</i>) = <i>P</i>(<i>A</i><strong> | </strong><i>E</i>). While the formula can look rather complex, it is a generally simple idea that can be used to quantify one’s new degree of certainty about an object or event when new information is presented that affects one’s prior degree of certainty about an object or event. Here, <i>P</i> represents the “<i>probability corresponding to S’s degree of belief</i>.” Simply, <i>P</i> means that a person (i.e., <i>S</i>) believes that <i>A</i> will occur [0–100] percent of the time. Therefore, let us say that <i>A</i> is <i>the occurrence that at least one character dies in the final scene</i> of a particular Shakespearean tragedy that <i>S</i> has not seen. We could say that for <i>S</i>—who, let us say, is a college-educated theatre or English major graduate—that his <span aria-label="61" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-071" role="doc-pagebreak" title="61"></span>or her <i>P</i>(<i>A</i>) is 90 percent (or, technically, .90). In plain English, that means that <i>S</i> believes with a 90 percent degree of belief of <i>A</i>, or this person has a 90 percent degree of belief that at least one character will die in the final scene of this particular Shakespearean play that he or she has not seen. Let us say, further, that as the play goes along, <i>S</i> encounters some new information that is relevant to this person’s <i>P</i>(<i>A</i>), which means new information that affects this person’s degree of belief that at least one character will die in the final scene of this play. We call this new information <i>E.</i> At the moment that this new information is revealed, we can calculate a new <i>P</i> (i.e., P<i>new</i>), where, given <i>E</i>, <i>S</i> believes that <i>A</i> will occur a new percent of the time. In short, <i>S</i> believes that (now) after learning <i>E</i>, that <i>A</i> will occur ___ percent of the time. Stated another way, after learning <i>E</i>, <i>S</i> (now) believes with ___ percent degree of belief that <i>A</i> will occur.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-18"></span>This general concept from Bayesian epistemology helps explain differences in the viewing experience for different members of an audience. For example, maybe a college-educated theatre or English major might have a <i>P</i>(<i>A</i>) of 90 percent, referring to the fact that in a Shakespearean tragedy not seen before that this person believes that there is a 90 percent chance that at least one character will die at the end of the play. However, let us say another viewer in the same audience is a fourteen-year-old freshman in high school and this is the first Shakespeare play they have ever read or seen. Not only would the fourteen-year-old’s sense of the probability (i.e., <i>P</i>) vary of what will transpire, the very notion of what can or cannot, or might or might not, transpire (i.e., <i>A</i>), will vary greatly, as well. Now, compare this to, say, a Shakespearean scholar or actor, who has read and seen the play (or maybe acted in this play) a number of times. Their sense of probability (i.e., <i>P</i>) of what will transpire (i.e., <i>A</i>) will be quite different, both their assuredness and what facts they are looking for. That is, this Shakespearean scholar or actor is not looking for the same <i>A</i> as our college-educated English or theatre major, the “occurrence that one character dies at the end of the play,” but their <i>A</i>, the occurrence or object they are looking <span aria-label="62" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-072" role="doc-pagebreak" title="62"></span>for, might be how this particular production, and the actors within, handle a particular scene, in terms of, say, how seriously or humorously a few lines are acted.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-19"></span>This above example about a high school freshman and a Shakespearean actor or scholar both watching the same play highlights an important issue: <i>What is the relationship between receiving common data and having the same experience</i>? In <i>Subjective, Intersubjective, Objective</i> (2001), Donald Davidson introduces the concept of <i>triangulation</i> to epistemology in situations where two or more creatures interpret both the world and each other simultaneously, where “each creature learns to correlate the reactions of other creatures with changes or objects in the world to which it also reacts.”<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-30" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-30"><sup>8</sup></a> For Davidson, the “shared perceptual stimulus” of two or more minds reacting to the world yields a “triangular set of relations.”<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-31" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-31"><sup>9</sup></a> Building off Davidson’s ideas about triangulation, I want to suggest that the more minds/observers there are reacting to the same object, the less the effect of parallax: the more observers, the more understandings can be <i>superimposed</i> on one another.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-32" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-32"><sup>10</sup></a> Essentially, the more superimpositions that come from more viewers from many and different angles, the more accurate the viewing (and think of Google Earth as a <i>world</i>-ly example of this). To this conception of superimposing, we can add the rationale from Bayesian epistemology for the <i>variety-of-evidence thesis</i> in thinking about confirmation theory—“the more varied the evidence is, the better”—and also the fact that the act of superimposing, like Bayesian epistemology, takes into account the source of knowledge/belief, being able “to model the effect of combining the testimony of several witnesses.”<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-33" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-33"><sup>11</sup></a> To be clear, while triangulation happens mostly after performance, that is not to say that Bayes’s theory stops at the end of a theatrical production and, then, triangulation takes over: Bayes’s theory continues to apply well after the time of a theatrical production. That is, making use of triangulation, one continues to update their knowledge of the play, as well as their experiences, even after the theatrical production concludes.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-20"></span><span aria-label="63" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-073" role="doc-pagebreak" title="63"></span>On a smaller scale (than Google Earth) to demonstrate my ideas about triangulating knowledge, I would like to make a slight adjustment to the end of Edmund L. Gettier’s famous example, come to be known as the “Gettier Problem,”<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-34" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-34"><sup>12</sup></a> to address the idea that some things present themselves as internally illogical, but are perfectly logical externally:</p><blockquote class="disp-quote prosequote" data-content-type="prosequote" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-disp-quote-jyts-8">
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-21"></span><i>When Smith makes his assertion that the man with ten coins in his pocket will get the job, Smith—unbeknownst to himself—does indeed have ten coins in his pocket. In the next few proceeding hours, after purchasing a snack and lunch, however, Smith spends the coins that were in his pocket, unaware of how many he had in his pocket in the first place. After lunch, Smith gets awarded the job. His assessment that the man with ten coins will get the job appears to be false.</i></p></blockquote><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-22"></span>Internally there is a contradiction; externally it is logical. With overlapping experience and knowledge from both the snack vendor and the lunch vendor—while Smith was justified in his belief that the man with ten coins in his pocket would get the job and did not know his assertion was true—Smith can learn that his original assertion was true, and that he was justified in believing it, even though that original assertion presented itself as false. The approach to external truth, seemingly illogical, now based upon the internal contradiction, can be approached by triangulating the experiences of Smith, the snack vendor, and the vendor at lunch. Much in the same way, our thought experiment theatre spectators—A, B, and C—can learn about the performance by triangulating their three experiences.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-23"></span>Following the observation about the difficulty of taking in <i>all</i> of a play, the only remaining path left to approach an understanding of the totality of performance lays in the fact that the more contexts—personal and group—that can be overlaid on top of one another by triangulation, the smaller the error from personal, and group, parallax. With its corresponding infinitesimally larger units and <span aria-label="64" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-074" role="doc-pagebreak" title="64"></span>infinitesimally smaller units, the concept of infinity ensures that error from parallax is impossible to overcome (e.g., something like Zeno’s paradox of Achilles and the Tortoise). For clarity, I am not using “parallax” in the same way as Slavoj Žižek’s Lacanian use of it in his book <i>The Parallax View</i>. Instead, I am invoking the literal use of the term as it pertains to (visual) perception (i.e., experiencing the world from different circumstances or positions). Different circumstances inherently allow some direct lines of experience, indirect lines of experience, and blocked lines of experience. Due to the resulting parallax—with no God-like observer to work to mesh these views the way that our brain, via stereopsis, makes the visual parallax into one clear image—there must be interpersonal, interpersonal and group, and intergroup stereopsis by way of layering contexts and evaluating the displacement, the alignment, and/or error to gain knowledge about the object being viewed.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-24"></span>In light of epistemic concerns about other minds, using theatre and performance as case studies demonstrates that the relationship among justified belief, knowledge, and truth (to think back to the “Gettier Problem”) is a product of the overlap of personal and group contexts and circumstances.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-35" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-35"><sup>13</sup></a> The case of theatre and performance, then, furthers the conclusion that objective facts are more fully revealed <i>after</i> the viewing. In its totality, a performance event is (1) not quite an exact time-place-space-defined event, (2) too complex to observe all aspects of the event, and (3) based on different subjective understandings of the event based on different subjective experiences of the individual spectators. Triangulation from individual spectators and groups, therefore, is necessary to lessen the parallax created by these three above-mentioned factors.</p></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-sec-46"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-25"></span>Theatre as a <i>Living</i> Idea</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-26"></span>Viewing performance blurs the line between private/individual and public/shared experiences, in part, because <i>performance lives</i>. <span aria-label="65" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-075" role="doc-pagebreak" title="65"></span>As one calls the Constitution of the United States a “living document,” one can also argue that <i>performance is a living idea of embodied artistic expression.</i> Performance is made up of a series of <i>concrete</i> objects and events that can only, however, be understood in its entirety as an <i>abstract object.</i> While the essential composition remains the same—if delineated and bounded by a dramatic text—the changing parts and participants of performance constantly change. Those same bounds can change shape, shade, color, and intensity based upon how the performance participants understand the shape, shade, color, and intensity of the text. In turn, this affects how we understand the shape, shade, color, and intensity of the text. A piece of performance, then, is a living idea that develops both within and changes the perceivable boundaries delineated by the text. The ever-changing parts and participants of performance across time and place are precisely what reveal the limits but also the many different shapes, shades, colors, and levels of intensity that can (or cannot) exist within the malleable container that houses a living artistic idea. Performance, then, is a living artistic idea: <i>performance is malleable conceptual matrix that creates, holds, develops, and explores an embodied artistic idea and/or expression</i>.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-27"></span>Patrick <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-106" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-106">Grafton-Cardwell (2020</a>) argues against two types of monism that assess when or how a work of art is complete by claiming the following thesis:</p><blockquote class="disp-quote prosequote" data-content-type="prosequote" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-disp-quote-jyts-9">
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-28"></span><strong>Completion Pluralism</strong>: There are many kinds of artwork completion, many corresponding senses of “completion,” and no kind of artwork completion is objectively more important than any other. (198)</p></blockquote><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-29"></span>For Grafton-Cardwell, as well other aestheticians, the premise of their claims and arguments surrounding the completion of art is that <i>art comes to a completion</i>. Grafton-Cardwell’s general thesis is that the completion of an artwork can be considered complete using many different properties and metrics.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-30"></span><span aria-label="66" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-076" role="doc-pagebreak" title="66"></span>I would suggest, however, that the case of (text-based) theatre poses a problem to a basic presumption made by Grafton-Cardwell and the field: conceived as a work of art, there is no real end to the artistic act of a <i>play</i>, as a play is never really <i>complete</i>, per se. While there is an end to a dramatic text (with the occasional exception of rewrites by the playwright<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-36" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-36"><sup>14</sup></a>), the dramatic text is just one (albeit major) component of theatre and the artistic life of a play. And while there is an end to a specific performance of a specific play, multiple performances of a play and the play’s performance history are also a part of the play as a piece of art.</p></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-sec-47"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-31"></span>The Problem Case of Theatre</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-32"></span>Before we dive into the world of theatre, let me define a few terms as I am using them here. “Theatre” is an artistic medium that is comprised of dramatic literature and performance(s). A “play” is a specific piece of theatre art. As such, a <i>play</i> is comprised of a dramatic text + performance<sub>1</sub> + performance<sub>2</sub> + performance<sub>3</sub> + . . . <i>ad infinitum</i>. So plugging in an example, <i>Hamlet</i> is a piece of theatre. <i>Hamlet</i> is a play that is the combination of William Shakespeare’s dramatic text, <i>Hamlet</i>, and many performances of <i>Hamlet</i>. These terms are important since one of the first seminal debates in aesthetics and theatre studies played out concerning the relationship of a dramatic text to the performance of the dramatic text.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-33"></span>Noël <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-44" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-44_3">Carroll (2001</a>), David Z. <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-204" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-204_3">Saltz (2001</a>), and James R. <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-0113" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-0113_3">Hamilton (2001</a>) debated whether the performance (of a play) constitutes its own art form or is merely an interpretation of a dramatic text, and therefore is once removed from the original artistic creation. Much later, after (at least) theatre studies widely accepted the idea that performance is its own art form, building off of <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-0113" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-0113_4">Hamilton (2001</a>, 2007), and in <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146_9">Bennett (2017</a>), I claimed that there is no possibility of reproducing the dramatic text and that every single production <span aria-label="67" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-077" role="doc-pagebreak" title="67"></span>of a play is, in essence, an <i>adaptation</i>, and, thus, an original piece of art.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-67"></span>My 2017 assertion that every performance of a play is an adaption not only addresses the above conversation about the relationship between text and performance, but more relevant here, it gets to the never-ending nature of theatre, as the embodiment of the text has different material realities each time. The embodiment of different characters by different actors’ real bodies creates and changes the material reality of the performance among different performances, and this does not even take into account the matter of interpretation. That is, so much of the embodiment of a play happens in the fleshing out of what is not written in the speeches and stage directions, some more intentional than other changes, such as the color palate of the lighting design versus the real bodies of the actors or the shape of the theatre and what type of stage it has. Given this notion of adaption, then, each production is a part of the play (as a whole) but also, in part, is its own piece of art. As such, there is always some new artistic creation (or “re-creation” as I call it) in the life of a play.</p></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-sec-48"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-68"></span>Art Objects versus Experiencing Art</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-104"></span>Theatre is the most obvious artistic medium, or, at least, the most extreme example, of artwork that is not complete, and that is why I began with it. Theatre makes most obvious the difference between, say, the <i>existence of an artistic object</i>, such as a dramatic text, and the experience of <i>experiencing an artistic object</i>, such as listening and watching an embodied performance of the text. In general, the former, the artistic object, <i>may</i> be complete, but the latter, the experiencing of the artistic object, is just as important to consider in this debate over the completion of a work of art. After all, a novel, say, does not do much as a work of art without being read, or a painting does not do much as a work of art without being <span aria-label="68" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-078" role="doc-pagebreak" title="68"></span>seen. That is, the reception of, or experience of receiving the observational data from, the artwork is inherently a part of the art. That is, art does not really <i>end</i>. While Jorge Luis Borges, in two of his most famous stories—“The Library of Babel” and “Pierre Menard, the Author of the <i>Quixote</i>”—really gets at this subtle distinction in regard to literature, Borges’s distinction between <i>art-as-an-object</i> versus <i>art-as-an-experience</i> speaks, as far as I can tell, to all art forms.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-105"></span>Borges’s “The Library of Babel” speaks of a seemingly infinite library that contains practically infinite books that contain every combination of letters and spaces within five hundred pages, thus containing every book ever written or will be written, plus nonsensical books. The issue is that while the narrator suggests the infinite nature of the library, there are, mathematically speaking, a finite number of number and letter combinations within five hundred pages. But the idea that the library is infinite still holds: that is, as people spend their entire life in this library, even if they read the same book again later in life, they will have a different experience of the book and, thus, each book is always new and/or different.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-106"></span>Similarly, in “Pierre Menard, the Author of the <i>Quixote</i>,” where a twentieth-century writer “writes” (or, rather, copies or simply says he wrote) the entire text of Miguel Cervantes’s <i>Don Quixote</i>. The idea, wrapped in dry sarcasm, is that the text is always different based upon the context in which it is being read, as reading (or writing) <i>Don Quixote</i> in sixteenth-century Spain is vastly different than reading it in either twentieth-century Argentina, or (now) in the twenty-first century (in the English-speaking world). That is, the experience of reading Cervantes’s <i>Don Quixote</i> is always different, whether it is between vastly different people over vast times and places or within one’s own lifetime.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-107"></span>It is due to all of these above factors that viewing performance is, counterintuitively, not a shared experience but a highly subjective individual experience that is modified by the presence of other minds in the public realm. On one hand, theatre incorporates <span aria-label="69" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-079" role="doc-pagebreak" title="69"></span>other minds, views, and opinions in such a way that we are not, as Descartes argued, individual minds (<i>I think, therefore I am</i>). Instead, we are social beings whose minds are shaped by other minds. Yet, on the other hand, Wittgenstein’s notion that we only understand the world via a shared reality because of language is not right either, as we have vastly different understandings and experiences when viewing performance. Stated again, <i>viewing performance is a highly individualized experience that, paradoxically, relies on the experiences of other minds</i>.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-108"></span>While “empathy” may be a shared experience in the theatre and performance—and (via Keith Lehrer) each observer’s mirror neurons are observing the same object to <i>mirror</i> (though, <i>if</i> all facing the same way, of course)—an audience is a random set of eyes, ears, and minds (though, usually from higher-income households with higher education levels). The point is that the facts going into the play—or, rather, the facts <i>about</i>, and <i>circumstances of</i>, the individual observers and what each observer “attends to” and what/which emotions are brought into the theatre space at any given two-hour or so span of time—are not evenly dispersed among the audience members (and even participants). Some know the play line by line, others know the main stage directions, some have just read it, some have just seen it, and some do not even know the play at all.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-109"></span>Each “spectator,” then, uses and/or has a different <i>lens</i>, or “spectacle,” through which he or she experiences a (largely similarly viewed) object or action. Thus, truth needs to be revealed by the experiences and thoughts of everyone included to have something like Pollock’s objective justified belief possible, given that the “spectacles” are going to be slightly different for each “spectator,” to play off the title of, and some of the ideas in, Dennis Kennedy’s <i>The Spectator and the Spectacle</i>. The spectators each spectate through their own unique and subjective circumstances (to think back to our “<i>evening at the theatre</i>”), which, rarely, is steady (even for each spectator), as circumstances change based upon new information <span aria-label="70" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-080" role="doc-pagebreak" title="70"></span>and experiences. Theatre and performance are always different, inevitably different, even if the words and actions are <i>exactly</i> the same (which is essentially impossible), because the audience is <i>always</i> a different audience.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-37" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-37"><sup>15</sup></a> This is true even when it is just one reader, one actor, or one spectator. It is not only that the physical composition or location generally changes in an audience, but the knowledge both personally experienced and acquired from other minds changes over the course of a day or two, if not decades or centuries. This is the very point made by Heraclitus, in the epigraph to this chapter.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-110"></span>An experience I had in my teens at the theatre may prove useful here. During the drive into New York City to see <i>Smokey Joe’s Cafe</i> on Broadway, I asked my mom what the musical was about. As I remember hearing it, she told me that it was a “typical musical.” Once it started, though, I was having trouble following the characters from scene to scene, and I thought the character development was terrible. During intermission, my mom asked what I thought about it, and I told her that I loved the music but was having trouble following the plot. Her response stuck with me: “What kind of plot would there be in a musical revue?” Once that single word was added, I adored the second half of the musical revue. Hence, that night, I watched two different shows: first, an undeveloped musical and, then, second, a thoroughly entertaining musical revue. However, while the act of triangulating the experiences of spectators gives each a better understanding of the object/performance commonly viewed, this activity poses some further problems. To discuss these ideas with more precision, I need two helpful terms: <i>qualia</i> and “propositional attitudes.” In short, individual instances of experience are called <i>qualia</i> (<i>quale</i> is singular); the attitudes/feelings/beliefs one has toward a proposition are called “propositional attitudes.” After consulting with another mind during intermission (i.e., my mom), the <i>qualia</i> remained intact, in terms of how I experienced the first half of the show; my propositional attitude toward the first half changed to a <span aria-label="71" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-081" role="doc-pagebreak" title="71"></span>degree. However, with the newfound knowledge about the show, my propositional attitude and the <i>qualia</i> certainly changed for the second half of the show.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-111"></span>Before the intermission, the <i>qualia</i> presented in a way that I felt like I was experiencing a disjointed musical. The propositional attitude was one of “<i>I dislike that</i> <u>the musical is disjointed</u>” (for added clarity, here, the <i>propositional attitude</i> is italicized; the <u>proposition</u> is underlined). During intermission, after finding out that it is supposed to be a “musical revue,” the qualia regarding the first act did not change, per se. However, I understood, now, why my “propositional attitude” changed (“<i>I, now, understand why I thought that</i> <u>the musical is disjointed</u>”). Heading into the second half of the show, my individual experience was entirely different. The qualia presented itself as a musical revue, and my “propositional attitude” changed drastically to “<i>I love that</i> <u>I am watching this musical revue</u>.” In short, my attitude toward the show changed because both the “proposition” and the qualia changed <i>to me</i> (even though, in fact, little to nothing about the show itself changed between the first half and the second half). What caused this change was the knowledge I gained from another mind, which <i>changed the circumstances from which I was experiencing</i> the performance.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-112"></span>However, further, what has happened to my experiences and attitudes over the years? What has happened to those qualia and propositional attitudes, with my fading memory of that experience and, now, having more knowledge about theatre and performance? Besides a snippet or two of visual memories of the set and actors and auditory memories of the music, all that I remember <i>now</i> is the first fifteen minutes of the show, the disjointedness I experienced during those first fifteen minutes, my attitude toward the show, and the <i>fact</i> that I remember that my attitude and experience changed after intermission.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-38" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-38"><sup>16</sup></a></p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-113"></span>In short, an art object may exist, but the experiencing of that art object is not usually time-place-person specific. (The notable exception to this is that some performance art and performance artists <span aria-label="72" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-6-target-082" role="doc-pagebreak" title="72"></span>cannot replicate the experience of some one-off performances.) The artwork is ongoing since the experience of that art object will be different each time. Sometimes the differences are due to differences in the art object itself (as in the case of theatre, or more subtly, in music or dance). Other times, there are differences in regard to receiving the observational data of the art object (as in the case of literature, painting, sculpture, architecture, etc.). But either way, the experience of an art object is never complete, as it is, or at least can be, always changing. And it is because of this that the experiences and insights of a bevy of participants and observers must be triangulated to approach a truer understanding of a piece of theatre.</p></div></section></body></html><!--This epub package was generated by the OUP JYTS Application version 12.0 on 2024/08/19 22:16:06 Using  OUP Academic ePub style and the following user options: chunkLevel=chapter, addTitlePage=no, addCopyrightPage=no, addKeytermsList=no, addIllustrationsList=yes, addTablesList=yes, addVideosList=yes, addAudiosList=yes, addEndPageIllustrations=no, scaleImages=yes, addDataSmil=no, displayContribList=no, addGlossRevLink=no, addTextPopOver=no, addInlineframe=No, addInlineAudio=no, addAnswerShowHide=no, addHintShowHide=no -->