<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" /><title>2 The Nature of Theatre</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="css/OUP_epub_kindle.css" type="text/css" /></head><body><section class="chunk chapter" data-book-part-type="chapter" epub:type="chapter" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5" role="doc-chapter">

<header><h1 class="header chapter"><span class="label chapter"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-1"></span><span aria-label="33" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-043" role="doc-pagebreak" title="33"></span>2</span> <span class="title chapter">The Nature of Theatre</span></h1></header>
  




<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-2"></span>Having just explored previous conceptions of theatre, I want to start this systematic account of theatre with three basic questions about the nature of theatre: Does theatre exist? If so, how does theatre exist? And, finally, what <i>is</i> theatre? I can also ask these questions in a different way: What is theatre’s ontological status (i.e., does it exist [in some way])? And if theatre does exist, how do we categorize and describe theatre’s ontology? This chapter will attempt to answer all these questions.</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-3"></span><i>Fictional entities</i>—such as unicorns, Sherlock Holmes, and Hamlet—have long fascinated philosophers for the ways in which these objects exist (or do not exist) on the margins of reality. As laid out by David Friedell, in his recent article surveying the field in <i>Philosophy Compass</i>, the existence or nonexistence of fictional objects has great ramifications to “broader metaphysical issues—including questions about causation, the abstract/concrete distinction, time, vague existence, vague identity, and inadvertent creation” (2021). These are weighty subjects and provide some of the many reasons that philosophers study fictional entities. In some ways, all fictional entities get to the heart of the question, in what way does a fictional entity exist if it is fictional? That is, if Sherlock Homles, or Hamlet, or even a unicorn does not exist, how can we have elaborate conversations about them? And how can we come to some agreement on the nature of each of these fictional characters?</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-4"></span>However, philosophers have tended to group theatrical characters—and Hamlet is used quite often—with other fictional characters, such as Sherlock Holmes. The question of the existence of fictional characters becomes even more problematic in the <span aria-label="34" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-044" role="doc-pagebreak" title="34"></span>case of theatre, as theatrical characters have a dual existence on the page and the stage. That is, theatrical characters exist as a range of possibilities on the page, while they, <i>momentarily</i>, become a single embodied (fictional) reality on any given stage on any given night. This impermanence (or seeming impermanence) is largely why we must raise the question, does theatre exist? Theatre takes fictional characters and places them in a counterfactual situation (i.e., a situation that runs counter to actual facts about our real world) that plays out, repeatedly, day in and day out. So does, or how does, theatre have a material reality due to its momentary existence or its fleeting existence in a moment in time? Given that the performance of theatre centers on real bodies who, for the time of the play, act as fictional characters, let us start by thinking about how a fictional entity exists (if it does)?</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-5"></span>Philosophers split into (according to Amie L. Thomasson’s important 1999 book, <i>Fiction and Metaphysics</i>) five camps surrounding the idea of whether and how a fictional entity exists, with some of these camps drawing on some of the foundational arguments of twentieth-century analytic philosophy. Thomasson posits the following five groups: Meinongians; Possibilists; those who see fictional characters as objects of reference; those who see fictional characters as imaginary objects; and, finally (following her theory), Artifactualists (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-230" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-230_1">Thomasson 1999</a>: 5–23). Following Francesco Berto, it is also possible (and, with a bit of hindsight, much simpler) to categorize these groups as <i>Meinongians</i> (i.e., fictional names refer to nonexistent objects), <i>Realists</i> (i.e., fictional names refer to abstract objects, broadly defined), and <i>Fictionalists</i> (i.e., fictional names do not refer).<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-9" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-9"><sup>1</sup></a> In some respects, these three groups all have differing stances on the same topic, but in some other ways, they are not (fully) at odds with, or really having a debate with one another, as each group has a very different agenda/reason for studying fictional entities.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-10" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-10"><sup>2</sup></a></p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-6"></span>Relatively recently, philosophers have begun to return to Meinongian theories in the debate surrounding names, reference, <span aria-label="35" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-045" role="doc-pagebreak" title="35"></span>and fictional entities. In general, however, Meinongian theories are not theories inherently concerned with questions and philosophical problems posed by fiction, but are concerned with the implications that nonexistent objects have on larger questions in ontology and, more broadly, metaphysics.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-11" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-11"><sup>3</sup></a></p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-7"></span>More recently, fictionalism has asserted that fictional objects simply do not denote actual objects or anything outside of the fictional world of the text. Fictionalists are much more concerned with the philosophy of language and philosophical semantics than ontology and metaphysics. Broadly speaking, fictionalists are not interested in the existence (or nonexistence) of a fictional character; rather, they are concerned with the <i>truth value</i> of statements made in fictional works. Fictionalists argue that inherent in fiction is the notion of <i>pretense</i>, and they suggest that implied in the statement “Sherlock Holmes is a detective” is the unwritten, but mutually understood prefix that results in “In Arthur Conan Doyle’s stories, Sherlock Holmes is a detective”; determining the truth value of the first sentence is problematic, while the second sentence is, simply, true. Fictionalists, thus, eschew the debate between the Meinongians (i.e., fictional characters are <i>nonexistent</i>) and the realists (i.e., fictional characters, broadly speaking, <i>exist</i> [in some way]) by changing their lines of inquiry to questions of language and semantics.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-12" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-12"><sup>4</sup></a></p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-8"></span>The realists, broadly speaking, include (1) the possibilists, (2) those who see fictional characters as objects of reference, (3) those who see fictional characters as imaginary objects, and (4) the artifactualists. Realists see—as a general overarching principle—that fictional entities <i>exist</i> in some way: most commonly, as <i>abstract objects</i>. That is, realists see fictional names as referring to an existent object, even though that object is (generally thought of as) abstract. This group of realists may further be broken down into those who argue that fictional entities are (1) abstract objects (see, most notably, Saul Kripke’s <i>Naming and Necessity</i>); (2) artifactual objects that exist in their contextual relationships dependent on <span aria-label="36" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-046" role="doc-pagebreak" title="36"></span>things that exist (Amie L. Thomasson, most notably, in <i>Fiction and Metaphysics</i>); and, finally, (3) <i>possibilia</i>, by possibilists, who suggest that fictional entities exist in a “possible world” (most notably, David Lewis, in <i>On the Plurality of Worlds</i>). While these theories and their implications for ontology and metaphysics vary widely (without making too much of a blanket statement), realists believe that fictional entities—in some way, shape, or form—exist. Theatrical characters, however, and even more so in their dual existence on the stage and the page, seem to pose an extra layer of complications to the study of fictional entities. Thus far, largely, theatre has been studied as a category of art through philosophical aesthetics. Very few studies have looked at (specifically) theatre ontologically (with the exceptions of Degani-Raz 2003, 2005 and <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146_5">Bennett 2017</a>).</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-9"></span>First, I will develop and expand my previous (2017/2021) theory of fictional entities: elucidating types of (created) <i>abstract objects</i> that I call <i>re-created objects</i> and <i>re-positioned objects</i>. From there, I will examine three modes of delivery in the theatre: metaphor, representation, and presentation. I will demonstrate how re-created and/or re-positioned objects are featured in these three theatrical modes.</p>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-29"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-10"></span>Re-created Objects</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-11"></span>Elsewhere, I have discussed how the word “cat,” for example, refers to a cluster of associations with the referent (or, we can say, too, with the <i>type</i>): <i>pet</i>, <i>feline</i>, <i>long-haired</i>, <i>Fluffy</i>, <i>short-haired</i>, <i>whiskers</i>, <i>purr</i>, <i>meow</i>, <i>domesticated</i>, <i>frequent allergen</i>, <i>black spots</i>, <i>yellow spots</i>, and so on (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146_6">Bennett 2017</a>, 2021). Instead of a word referring to a specific referent, or to an exact collection or cluster of properties or states, words refer to clusters of separate, individual associations that all together, in full combination, constitute the meaning of a word. However, and here is the key point, every single association need not be present (explicitly or implicitly) to use and/or understand a <span aria-label="37" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-047" role="doc-pagebreak" title="37"></span>word. And, further, the cluster may contain associations—such as extralingual connections—that are not even a part of the meaning of the word. For example, if I say, “my purring pet,” essentially everyone will understand that I am referring to my domesticated feline. I would also equally be able to refer to the same object through the statement “Every time Fluffy meows, I see her whiskers perk up,” or the statements “I sneeze whenever I get too close to Fluffy’s long-haired coat” or “I get scratched by Fluffy after she licks her paws.”</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-12"></span>My claim that a word is an abstract object that refers to concrete parts may appear that I advocate for something of a <i>type</i>-versus-<i>token</i> ontological model of words. If I were to say the word “cat,” most would agree that I am referring to a concrete object. Cats do exist (as a <i>type</i>). Or at least, Cat<sub>1,</sub> Cat<sub>2</sub>, Cat<sub>3</sub> . . . exist (as <i>tokens</i>). If I were to establish the fact that I own a domesticated feline that I refer to as “Fluffy,” and if I were to say, “my cat, Fluffy,” I would be creating a more rigid designation for the word “cat” in the context of this proposition. Here, the type/token model explains the ontology of the word “cat” and its relationship to its referent.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-13"></span>However, what if I were with another person, and we both observed a shadow, and if I were to say, “I think <i>that</i> is a shadow of a cat,” but—in this instance—a cat was not what was casting <i>that</i> shadow? I can make the above statement, and my interlocutor and fellow observer could understand what I uttered, because we could examine the shape of the shadow and, given the elements of what makes up a cat (much of what we know both from a dictionary definition and from empirical experience), we can attribute these elements to corresponding elements in that shadow. Of course, too, that shadow would not need to demonstrate all the many things that make cats “cats.” This shadow need not, for example, demonstrate that this shadow refers to a domesticated object, or if, further, whether this shadow refers to a cat that may or may not be hypoallergenic, to communicate that this shadow looks like a cat. But clearly, I can say the word “cat” and liken it to a two-dimensional, monotone shape not made by an actual “cat” because, much like <span aria-label="38" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-048" role="doc-pagebreak" title="38"></span>that two-dimensional monotone shape, the word “cat” refers, not to a concrete object but to an abstract object. In short, in the case of the word “cat,” I suggest that the word “cat” (without more rigidly contextualizing words and/or nonverbal gestures) is an abstract object that, in turn, refers to a cluster of concrete parts. I call abstract objects of this type “re-creations” or “re-created objects.”<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-13" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-13"><sup>5</sup></a></p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-14"></span>While I agree with cluster theory’s claim that <i>x</i> need not have all the properties in the cluster for “F” to apply to it,<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-14" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-14"><sup>6</sup></a> re-created objects do not require all of the constituent associations to be a part of the meanings. That is, instead, re-creations can have, as well, an excess of associations (that include connotations beyond what is being referred to and/or denoted). While we can suggest that in this above theory of words, “words” are types (abstract entities), what these words refer to—clusters of associations with the word—are not only tokens (particular instances or occurrences). The reason why fiction (broadly defined) can occur using language is because words refer not only to tokens but also to parts of tokens and parts of a cluster of associations (associations with the type and associations with its constituent tokens).</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-15"></span>At base, the intellectual thrust behind fiction is that fictional entities are re-creations that refer to nonexistent recombinations of a particular selection of associations from a cluster of associations (as opposed to states of being or properties).<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-15" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-15"><sup>7</sup></a> Each one of these associations in the cluster refers, further, either to a particular or to a universal referent (with the referent, further, being either a concrete object or action). Thus, because re-creations refer to clusters of concrete referents and actions which are associated with parts of the whole (i.e., the “whole” being the word, metaphor, fictional entity, fictional world, possible world), this is how, or why, fiction (broadly defined) can occur.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-16"></span>As I claim that fictional entities, fictional worlds, and <i>even</i> “possible worlds” are in the same class of objects as words—in that they are all <i>re-created objects</i>—there is a hierarchical structure that emerges when considering the relationship among all four of these <span aria-label="39" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-049" role="doc-pagebreak" title="39"></span>types of <i>abstract objects</i>.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-16" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-16"><sup>8</sup></a> The building blocks of fictional entities, fictional worlds, and “possible worlds” are words. In short, words build fictional entities, which are then used (among other words) to build fictional worlds, which are then used (among other things) to build “possible worlds.” Each layer in this schema is simply more complete and more detailed, but conversely, as the level of detail and completeness increases, the range of “possible worlds” as one moves through and up the schema decreases.</p></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-30"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-17"></span>From Abstract Creationism to Re-Creation</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-18"></span>As an adherent of it myself, <i>abstract creationism</i> believes, as a general overarching principle, that fictional entities are abstract objects that are intentionally created (by humans/artists/writers/etc.). In discussing the creation of fictional objects, Stuart Brock offers three interpretations of the claim John Searle makes that an author creates fictional characters and events by pretending to refer to them. One of the interpretations of Searle’s claim is what Brock calls “intended creation by pretense” view (ICP), in which “a fictional object is created whenever (i) an author intends to create a new fictional character and (ii) as a causal consequence of that intention, she pretends to refer to it” (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-31" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-31">Brock 2010</a>: 356). Brock argues against this as a possible way to understand how fictional objects are created. Brock criticizes David <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-87" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-87">Friedell (2016</a>) for using, what Brock calls, an “indirect response” to defend abstract creationism. Offering a further critique of abstract creationism and ICP, Brock outlines what he ascertains are, at minimum, the questions that an adequate theory of fictional objects should be able to answer (or, at least, provide resources to answer):</p><div class="list simple" data-list-type="simple" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-list-jyts-5"><ul class="list simple unlabelled" data-list-type="simple" epub:type="list" role="list"><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-19"></span><strong>Ontology</strong>. Are there any fictional objects?</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-20"></span><strong>Identity</strong>. Under what conditions is a fictional object <i>x</i> identical to a fictional object <i>y</i>?</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-21"></span><strong><span aria-label="40" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-050" role="doc-pagebreak" title="40"></span>Plentitude</strong>. How abundant is the domain of fictional objects? How many fictional objects are there? (2018: 93)</span>
</li></ul></div><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-22"></span>Brock suggests that Friedell also could have provided, instead of an indirect response to defend abstract creationism, either a direct response to the specific challenges posed by Brock or offer an “ambitious response” that involves a different interpretation of Searle’s thesis or an account that is entirely different (2018: 95). While this book does not lay a claim to, specifically, defend ICP, I offer an “ambitious response” as an alternative defense of abstract creationism.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-23"></span>By, instead, modifying our conception of what fictional objects are, in short, I give a defense of abstract creationism that offers answers to the questions, as outlined by Brock, of ontology, identity, and plenitude by developing a claim that—except for rigidly referring proper names—fictional terms, nonfictional terms, and metaphors are all abstract objects. This designation allows for a novel way to examine fictional entities—through an examination of the pieces or parts contained within.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-24"></span>Turning to the questions posed by Brock that could elicit an adequate theory of fictional objects—which include fictional terms and (non-rigidly referring) nonfictional terms—I will answer the questions posed by Brock one at a time:</p><div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-31"><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-25"></span><strong>Ontology</strong>. Are there any fictional objects?</p></div><div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-32"><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-26"></span><strong>Answer</strong>: I claim that the issue, here, is, in part, the (somewhat erroneous) idea that these abstract objects are “fictional.” Fiction is the opposite of nonfiction. I do not believe that “fiction” is appropriately named, as a “fictional” character contains and refers to a cluster of many concrete objects in this world. Instead, what we think of as “fiction” is, rather, a counterfactual condition. Let me rephrase the question, then, to one we can answer in the affirmative: Are there any abstract objects, or are there any re-creations? Yes.</p></div><div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-33"><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-27"></span><strong><span aria-label="41" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-051" role="doc-pagebreak" title="41"></span>Identity</strong>. Under what conditions is a fictional object <i>x</i> identical to a fictional object <i>y</i>?</p></div><div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-34"><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-28"></span><strong>Answer</strong>: The question yields two interpretations. Is the question (1) Under what conditions are Sherlock Holmes and Hamlet identical? or (2) Under what conditions are Sherlock Holmes from one story by Arthur Conan Doyle identical to Sherlock Holmes in another story by Doyle? In regard to (1), Sherlock Holmes and Hamlet are not identical under any conditions, as they are two distinct, abstract objects in two distinct and different fictional worlds. The caveat, however, is that while Sherlock Holmes is an abstract object that, on the whole, is different and distinct from Hamlet, who is also an abstract object, parts of the two fictional objects refer to some of the same concrete aspects: both Sherlock Holmes and Hamlet share traits of a detective (both try to uncover the truth and determine who is the criminal), they are both brilliant, they are both men, and so on. That being said, Sherlock Holmes and Hamlet are composed of recombinations of clusters of associations that ensure that these are two distinct entities: Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes lives in Victorian London and William Shakespeare’s Hamlet lives in medieval Denmark. These two different fictional worlds, and the two different stories that they are part of, ensure that these are distinct fictional objects.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-29"></span>Regarding (2), Hamlet appears only in Shakespeare’s play <i>The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark</i>, while Sherlock Holmes appears across a number of short stories by Doyle. This raises another issue, as well: Sherlock Holmes is found in, for example, BBC’s television series <i>Sherlock</i>, which takes place in contemporary London; Hamlet has been staged in, seemingly, every time period imaginable. While this does bring up a problem about reproducing an identical object, I can also answer the question more simply by indicating whose Sherlock Holmes or Hamlet it is (Shakespeare’s Hamlet, Director X’s Hamlet, Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes, BBC’s Sherlock Holmes, etc.).</p></div><div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-35"><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-30"></span><strong><span aria-label="42" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-052" role="doc-pagebreak" title="42"></span>Plentitude</strong>. How abundant is the domain of fictional objects? How many fictional objects are there?</p></div><div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-36"><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-31"></span><strong>Answer</strong>: The domain of fictional objects, or, rather, let us say, abstract objects or re-creations, is as abundant as there are words, and then some (such as combinations of concrete parts that make abstract wholes). An actual limit of combinations might be reached, but for practical purposes, it would be a limit that approaches infinity. We could also suggest, however, that because literature/metaphors can consist of infinitely long texts, infinite re-creations are possible.</p></div></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-37"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-32"></span>Re-creation in Theatre</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-33"></span>It is precisely because of this <i>loose</i> connection between a word and its cluster of associations that <i>fiction</i> (versus a description of reality) can occur. That is, if I say the phrase “Hamlet, Prince of Denmark,” I should think that essentially everyone would understand that I am referring to William Shakespeare’s fictional/theatrical character, Hamlet. Similar to my above discussion of “cat,” I should also equally be able to refer to the same object (i.e., Hamlet) through the statement “Horatio’s friend who plots to seek revenge” or phrases “the man who went mad north by northwest” or “the inventor of the mousetrap to catch the conscience of the King.” While Hamlet clearly does not exist in our actual world, Hamlet does (I claim) exist as a <i>re-created object</i> in that he is a re-creation of concrete objects and actions (e.g., a prince, a Dane, surviving son of a murdered father, seeks revenge, brilliant, creative, etc.). So, then, to whom/what does “Hamlet” refer? I claim that there are really two types of Hamlet (or, really, two types of any theatrical character, to be more explicit): the “<i>Necessary</i>-Hamlet” and the “<i>Possible</i>-Hamlet.”</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-67"></span>The “<i>Necessary</i>-Hamlet” refers to <i>one</i>, and only one, re-created individual in all “possible worlds,” who contains the precise <span aria-label="43" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-053" role="doc-pagebreak" title="43"></span>specific-and-specified collection of subjects and predicates associated with both the name “Hamlet” and the character Hamlet. The “<i>Necessary</i>-Hamlet” does not, and cannot, exist except as an abstract object, specifically as a <i>re-created object</i> (unless somehow Hamlet from Shakespeare’s <i>Hamlet</i> could appear and come to life as in Pirandello’s play). This Hamlet is a <i>necessarily</i> true Hamlet. But, again, this <i>Necessary</i>-Hamlet cannot exist except as an abstract object.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-68"></span>The “<i>Possible</i>-Hamlet” refers, however, to a <i>range</i> of re-created individuals, each of whom can contain a wide range of concrete properties and actions that are possibly associated with both the name “Hamlet” and the character Hamlet. This <i>Possible</i>-Hamlet refers, then, to many re-created individuals in different “possible worlds,” who can each claim the possibility of being Hamlet. However, none of these <i>Possible</i>-Hamlets exist in every “possible world.” The presumption about the <i>Possible</i>-Hamlets is that they each contain the same <i>kernel of Hamlet</i> but also contain many other possible concrete objects and actions that are not specific to or specified by the <i>Necessary</i>-Hamlet.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-104"></span>As falling under the purview of re-creation, classifying theatrical characters as <i>re-created objects</i> takes into account, even explains, the inherent imprecision of description and reference in names of fictional entities. That is, a <i>re-created object</i> contains an entire <i>range</i> of re-creations. For example, in theatre, the dramatic text specifies/limits the <i>range of re-creations</i> possible for a given theatrical character. That is, the dramatic text specifies/limits the range of who can possibly be (and who cannot possibly be) the said theatrical character in question. The performance, however, embodies a <i>single re-creation</i> of that theatrical character. Therefore, a dramatic text contains <i>all</i> of the possible re-creations of an individual (i.e., theatrical character); in every performance, a singular re-creation of an individual (i.e., theatrical character) is embodied.</p></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-38"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-105"></span><span aria-label="44" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-054" role="doc-pagebreak" title="44"></span>Re-positioned Objects</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-106"></span>Instead of looking just at objects and what these objects are, refer to, and/or are composed of (i.e., from the <i>words</i>, <i>sounds</i>, <i>bodies</i>, <i>images</i>, and <i>objects</i> typical of other art forms mentioned in the Introduction), in this book, I also want to think about the relationships among objects and/or how objects are <i>re-positioned</i> with/against each other.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-17" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-17"><sup>9</sup></a> That is, theatre does not only come into being by re-creating nonexistent objects (i.e., by combining concrete objects and actions in such a way that they do not actually exist). Sometimes it also comes into being by looking at existent objects from different vantage points, by re-positioning objects, either alone or in relation to other objects. Here, I am using the idea/concept of re-positioning not as a technical term, but merely using its commonsense notion that if you change the position of an object or an idea, either alone or in relation to something else, that it can be viewed differently. Theatre is not just fiction-world creating through words but through objects as well. So the ontological issue becomes not only whether some fictional character exists but whether some fictional object exists in virtue of the real-world object it tracks. In other words, what is the relationship between the fictional and nonfictional objects in theatre?</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-107"></span>By examining the blank spaces of theatre, this book is able to get to the very heart of how <i>the real</i> and <i>the imaginary</i> interact in theatre. This topic has been explored at great length by the many who look at theatre from a phenomenological perspective, but the ability to describe the relationship of the real to the imaginary in theatre has remained quite elusive and has been quite hard to pin down in theatre and performance studies, thus far. I claim that theatre <i>re-creates</i> and/or <i>re-positions</i> objects that exist in our world to create (or “re-create”) different and/or new <i>relations</i> among its constituent pieces, using one, or more than one, of the following figurative expressions: (1) metaphorical, (2) representational, and (3) presentational.</p></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-39"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-108"></span><span aria-label="45" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-055" role="doc-pagebreak" title="45"></span>Figurative Expressions</span></h2></header><div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-40"><header><h3 class="header sec hLevel3"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-109"></span>Metaphor in the Theatre</span></h3></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-110"></span>One of the most fundamental devices in the arts is metaphor. Along with simile and allegory, metaphor forms the backbone of fiction, broadly conceived. Here, I will examine how metaphor has been conceived and also how we can better conceive metaphor to more accurately describe what is happening in theatre.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-111"></span>I. A. Richards’s definition of metaphor still holds much sway in philosophical semantics and in philosophical aesthetics: a known object/concept, called the <i>vehicle</i> (also known as the secondary subject), is used to illuminate an unknown object/concept, called the <i>tenor</i> (also known as the primary subject).<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-18" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-18"><sup>10</sup></a> This definition—which is even more simply stated that a metaphor is a <i>likening</i> between two objects/concepts—is used to form the base of our understanding surrounding metaphor. However, metaphor (or literature, which can be argued to be an extended metaphor) generally helps us <i>understand</i> (our world, or something in it); this is different than I. A. Richards’s idea of <i>tenor</i> and <i>subject</i>, which generally attempts to <i>describe</i> (our world, or something in it) by using the attributes of the vehicle to describe the tenor.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-112"></span>Two figures of speech—metonymy and synecdoche—are intimately related to metaphor, as conceived by Richards. Metonymy is a figure of speech where something adjacent or contiguous replaces the original. That is, metonymies such as “The Crown” or “The White House” replace, respectively, the King and/or Queen and/or their kingdom or the President of the United States of America and/or the Office of the President. Synecdoche is another figure of speech where a part replaces the whole, or the whole replaces a part. Synecdoches such as “wheels,” “heads,” and “ABCs” are used in place of a car, cows as a part of a herd of cattle, and the alphabet. Both of these figures of speech are metaphorical, but in a large sense, when presented alone, they are likenings that are vehicles to describe tenors.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-113"></span><span aria-label="46" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-056" role="doc-pagebreak" title="46"></span>Largely unbeknownst to most philosophers, linguists, and even literary critics, however, a large body of work on the study of metaphor has been done, in fact, by biblical scholars. The study of metaphor relates to the primacy of “parables,” both in the <i>Hebrew Bible</i> (i.e., <i>meshalim</i>, plural, or <i>mashal</i>, singular, is the Hebrew word to describe a wide variety of literary forms, one of which is “parable”<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-19" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-19"><sup>11</sup></a>), and, even more so, in <i>The New Testament</i> with the parables of Jesus (as about 40 percent of the words spoken by Jesus are done so in the form of parables). The history of understanding parables is tied up with <i>allegory</i>, the latter of which is a fictional text that refers, with <i>one-to-one correspondence</i>, to something outside of the text. For example, <i>Animal Farm</i> is an allegory <i>of</i> communism, or <i>The Crucible</i> is an allegory <i>of</i> McCarthyism, or “The Prodigal Son” is an allegory <i>of</i> the Christian worldview that God welcomes back sinners who ask for forgiveness (where the father refers to God and the son refers to human-as-sinner). That is, this idea of a likening in metaphor—especially when the phrases are used, <i>this is a metaphor for</i>, or <i>this is a metaphor of—</i>really has its roots in allegory and allegorical readings. The idea of metaphor <i>for</i> or metaphor <i>of</i> is similar to many <i>pragmatic twist accounts</i> of metaphor, where the speaker or writer says one thing and something else is meant. I contend that the previous iteration of metaphor is closer to allegory or analogy, as it requires a likening or is referring to an object outside of itself.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-114"></span> While allegorical readings of the parables of Jesus may be familiar to and still heard by, say, churchgoers to this day, biblical scholars, and particularly <i>New Testament</i> scholars have, for decades, taken the position that, at base, a parable is a metaphor. Sallie McFague (1975) says that the meaning of the parable is contained within the story itself, but it is not limited by the story: “A parable is an extended metaphor. A parable is not an allegory, where the meaning is extrinsic to the story. . . . Rather, as an extended metaphor, the meaning is found only within the story itself although it is not exhausted by that story” (1975: 13). Both a parable and/or metaphor are <i>irreducible</i>, in that a metaphor is <span aria-label="47" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-057" role="doc-pagebreak" title="47"></span>only itself and cannot be reduced or transposed into, or onto, anything else other than itself: as C. H. Dodd says, “any attempt to paraphrase its meaning is both less clear and less forcible than the saying as it stands” (1965: 23).<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-20" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-20"><sup>12</sup></a> In this manner, parables and/or metaphors are explained adequately by <i>brute force accounts</i>, most notably by Donald Davidson (1978). These brute force accounts are, specifically, however, maintained to explain the <i>meaning</i> or <i>truth</i> of a metaphor, and not the, per se, ontology or ontological status of metaphor.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-21" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-21"><sup>13</sup></a> Again, if a metaphor referred, or were likened, to a referent(s) outside of the text, then it becomes an allegory and/or an analogy. However, literature—broadly defined to include fiction, drama (and theatre), and poetry—works precisely because there is <i>no specific</i> referent or likening. As such, most of traditional, text-based theatre works through metaphor.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-115"></span>As a means to demonstrate, as I do in <i>Analytic Philosophy and the World of the Play</i>, take Maurice Valency (1966) and his classic book on modern drama as an example. Besides Valency’s ability to categorize and compare drama from the Greeks through his present, Valency writes beautifully, explicating metaphors with ease. Valency’s talent is no more on display than in his discussion of Henrik Ibsen’s <i>The Master Builder</i>, from where he gets half of the title for his book, <i>The Flower and the Castle</i>. Ibsen’s play is about Solness, a “master builder” (i.e., an architect), who is past the prime of a successful career and, fearing being replaced by the younger generation, wants to build a “castle in the air,” a house with a spire taller than any church:</p><blockquote class="disp-quote prosequote" data-content-type="prosequote" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-disp-quote-jyts-2">
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-116"></span>It is one thing to aspire, quite another to attain the heights of one’s aspiration. No artist is able to realize in life the ideal he expresses in art. The disparity between what a man says and what he does is the measure of the man, not the artist. Moreover, the attempt to surmount in reality the peak of one’s fancy may prove to be a perilous business for one not properly equipped for the asperities of the ascent. (Valency 1966: 209)</p></blockquote><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-117"></span><span aria-label="48" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-058" role="doc-pagebreak" title="48"></span>In explicating Ibsen’s elegant metaphors (i.e., “master builder” and “castle in the air”), Valency uses two objects (i.e., “spire” and “architect”) that come directly from the plot of the play. First, he uses the “spire” of the house in the sense of the somewhat-antiquated verb form, “spire,” to get to “aspire”: “spire, <i>v.</i> 3. To rise or shoot up into a spire or spire-shaped form; to rise or extend to a height in the manner of a spire; to mount or soar aloft” (<i>OED</i>), which is not the direct root of the word “aspire,” but both are etymologically related. Most obviously, and much more likely the reason Valency chose the word, the verb “aspire” literally contains the word “spire.” From the definition of the verb “aspire,” Valency draws upon the dictionary definition of these words and ideas:</p><blockquote class="disp-quote prosequote" data-content-type="prosequote" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-disp-quote-jyts-3">
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-118"></span>aspire, <i>v</i>. 1. to seek to attain or accomplish a particular goal</p>
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-119"></span>   2. ascend, soar</p>
</blockquote><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-120"></span>Valency essentially just rewrites the first definition of “aspire” in the first sentence of the above passage, “to attain the heights of one’s aspiration,” using the cognate of “aspire” (i.e., “aspiration”—“3 <i>a</i>: a strong desire to achieve something high or great”) to connote both ideas of “height” (related to the “great” height of the spire) and of a “goal.” In Valency’s use of the object, “architect” (“1: a person who designs buildings and advises in their construction”), he is not using exactly the above dictionary definition, but develops his own extended metaphor, from what an “architect” literally does: that is, an architect creates a design, a blueprint, that is used, later, to turn the architect’s idea into a material reality. From this very literal description of an architect, Valency uses, this time in a more creative way, the idea of “design” to discuss the difference between an “ideal” design (i.e., “the peak of one’s fancy”) and the “disparity” between that “ideal” and the idea of the verbs, “aspire” and “spire” (i.e., “attempt to surmount in reality the peak of one’s fancy”), and the “reality” (“No artist is able to realize in life the ideal he expresses in art”). Finally, Valency returns to the word “ascent”—a cognate <span aria-label="49" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-059" role="doc-pagebreak" title="49"></span>of one of the above definitions of “aspire”—to demonstrate the “measure” of this “disparity” between the creation of an “ideal” and its existence in “reality.”</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-121"></span>Valency describes that while, from a “practical viewpoint,” the necessary “ability to climb buildings with a wreath in his hand” is “bizarre,” very importantly, Valency demonstrates that “as metaphors they are transparent.” I use Valency’s passage as a dual example of how extended metaphor (i.e., fiction/literature, broadly defined) is “transparent” in the ways in which it is both created (or, rather, re-created), and understood, by its unique collection of concrete referents selected from a cluster of associations. These associations, both inherent in the word/referent but also sometimes only associated with, are arranged (or recombined) in such a manner (and with a general incompleteness) that Solness and the world of <i>The Master Builder</i> do not actually exist, except as a re-creation that has ontological status as an abstract object. As I have used the example of <i>The Master Builder</i>, metaphor serves as the base of the vast majority of pieces of traditional text-based theatre.</p></div><div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-41"><header><h3 class="header sec hLevel3"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-122"></span>Representation in the Theatre</span></h3></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-123"></span>In <i>Painting as Art</i>, Richard Wollheim develops a theory of “seeing in” versus “seeing as.” When one <i>sees</i> x <i>as</i> y, one observes x and y in the same ontological category (e.g., the painting of a horse as a horse). In a sense, “seeing as” is similar to what Nelson Goodman, in <i>Languages of Art</i>, suggests happens in pictures, where—like in language—representations <i>refer</i> (and have a corresponding grammar of syntactic and semantic rules). However, to return to Wollheim, in art (particularly painting), one may <i>see</i> y <i>in</i> x (e.g., horror in an abstract painting, majesty in a painted cloud, a call for democratic ideals in a painting of farmworkers, etc.). In this respect, Roger Scruton, in his book <i>Art and Imagination</i>, discusses <span aria-label="50" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-060" role="doc-pagebreak" title="50"></span>how art has a “double intentionality,” where an experience is both directed at the work of art and also what is taken away from it.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-22" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-22"><sup>14</sup></a></p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-124"></span>John Dilworth, in <i>American Philosophical Quarterly</i> and the <i>Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism</i>, suggests that the notion of “representation” helps explain the nature of both dramatic text and theatrical performance, where a play is a <i>type</i> and performance is a <i>token</i> of that type. Dilworth’s discussion of <i>representation</i> in the theatre revives the topic of “representation” that has received ample attention as it (more generally) relates to art and aesthetics. Nelson Goodman’s <i>Languages of Art</i> (1968), Richard Wollheim’s <i>Art and Its Objects</i> (1968), and Kendall L. Walton’s <i>Mimesis as Make-Believe</i> (1990) are seminal books in philosophical aesthetics that make foundational arguments about the centrality of representation in understanding art.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-125"></span>But how does representation work in the theatre? In traditional text-based theatre, as in the section above on metaphor, much of theatre is neither entirely the display of the real nor the display of the purely fictional. Metaphor, again, works via re-creation. Representation, then, generally falls into the work of docudrama and/or verbatim theatre, as it is the <i>re</i>-presentation of an original object or action. In so many words, representation is a once-removed, but re-positioned object or action, in that docudrama and/or verbatim theatre <i>re</i>-present an actual object or action, without seeing or experiencing that actual object or action directly, but mediated through the actors on stage.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-126"></span>Two of the most famous examples of docudrama and/or verbatim theatre are <i>The Laramie Project</i> and the theatrical works of Anna Deveare-Smith. <i>The Laramie Project</i> is a woven tapestry of words spoken by people related to the homophobic attack and horrific murder of Matthew Shepard in Laramie, Wyoming. The production creates a narrative by actors who speak the words of the people they interviewed. This layering of actual transcripts shows how many people were touched and still touched by the death of Shepard. The actors, in a broad sense, re-present the <span aria-label="51" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-061" role="doc-pagebreak" title="51"></span>voices and stories of the actual people involved. Anna Deveare-Smith similarly interviews people surrounding a usually tumultuous event in recent history and then performs all of the people herself. This creates a sense that there is a common humanity. All of the people involved or commenting upon these events are mediated through the body and voice of Deveare-Smith. This, similarly, is a once-removed presentation that represents the people involved.</p></div><div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-42"><header><h3 class="header sec hLevel3"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-127"></span>Presentation in the Theatre</span></h3></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-128"></span>To “present” an object or action means “to introduce” that object/action, “bring[ing]. . . into the presence of” something/someone (<i>OED</i>). There is something of a sense of newness about presentation; like the television series <i>Alfred Hitchcock Presents</i> (1955–1965), what follows is a never-before-seen story. That is, to “present” is also “to show, exhibit, display” (<i>OED</i>), with “exhibit” containing the idea of the other two, “to submit or expose to view; to show, to display” (<i>OED</i>). These exhibits are not, importantly, re-creations or re-presentations, but are simply showing/telling something about objects and/or actions.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-129"></span>Presentation is when a piece of theatre (1) makes no (or at least very little) attempt to either re-create a so-called fictional object or even an entire fictional world, or (2) does not work via representation to re-position objects in a manner not previously seen before. Theatrical presentation is a theatrical show (per se). Presentation is (in general) the mode of performance art and one-person shows. When Guillermo-Gomez Peña and Coco Fusco sat in a cage as Amerindians in front of museums around the world, they presented themselves as actually existing objects (despite being, rather, re-creations). Karen Finley’s scatological shows did not summon up a world or a character, but her flesh and feces presented objects in a newly re-positioned light.</p></div></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-sec-43"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-130"></span><span aria-label="52" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-062" role="doc-pagebreak" title="52"></span>Re-creation Playing out on Stage</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-131"></span>My notion of “re-creation” in theatre, then, poses a direct challenge to Guo’s necessary conditions of theatrical acting (as outlined in <a class="link_chapter" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-4.xhtml" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-4_4">Chapter 1</a>). Guo summarizes the necessary conditions in the following expression:</p><blockquote class="disp-quote prosequote" data-content-type="prosequote" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-disp-quote-jyts-4">
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-132"></span>The actor S portrays a character C <i>iff</i> S intends audiences to imagine that S is identical with C, and S represents her own features as the features that C would have (C is either a different individual or the actor herself at a different time). (2021)</p></blockquote><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-133"></span>Guo argues that the audience (1) is to imagine that actor S is identical with character C because that is how actor S intends to portray character C, and (2) sees S as having the features that C would have.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-134"></span>But what happens when we do not assume that actor S intends audiences to imagine that S is <i>identical</i> with C? I have an answer for this:</p><blockquote class="disp-quote prosequote" data-content-type="prosequote" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-disp-quote-jyts-5">
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-135"></span>by changing the medium [from dramatic text to theatrical performance], regardless of any edits or changes to the original dramatic text, the characters and conditions in the text, once enacted, no longer refer to the range of characters and conditions that are possible in the text. The fixing of a single “possible world” through enacting it in a theatrical production practically ensures that the enacted text is/has to be different than the dramatic text, as the dramatic text also contains other “possible worlds” that may be entirely different than this singled out and fixed, enacted “possible world.” (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146_7">Bennett 2017</a>: 66)</p></blockquote><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-136"></span>By changing the medium from dramatic text to theatrical performance, a single embodiment of a character cannot be identical to the textual character, as the textual character embodies a range of possibilities, whereas a single embodied character, by actor S, can <span aria-label="53" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-063" role="doc-pagebreak" title="53"></span>only embody one possible character from within a range of possible characters. I give an example of this:</p><blockquote class="disp-quote prosequote" data-content-type="prosequote" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-disp-quote-jyts-6">
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-137"></span>the dramatic text <i>Waiting for Godot</i> contains a range of “possible worlds”: from Bert Lahr, E. G. Marshall, and Kurt Kasznar’s 1956 <i>Godot</i> to Nathan Lane, Bill Irwin, and John Goodman’s 2009 <i>Godot</i>. Both the 1956 <i>Godot</i> and the latter 2009 <i>Godot</i> are <i>contained in</i> Beckett’s dramatic text of <i>Godot</i>. For example, Lahr’s Estragon—“who seems to stand for all of the stumbling, bewildered people of the earth who go on living without knowing why”—is clearly different than Lane’s Estragon—“a loveable, loud buffoon, whose physical gestures and movement were demonstrative and sure,” where “Estragon’s joy of life and folly seemed to comfort Vladimir.” (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146_8">Bennett 2017</a>: 66–67)</p></blockquote><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-138"></span>In this above case, the audience or audiences have to imagine that this is actor S’s character C, or this is actor T’s character C (to use Guo’s terminology).</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-139"></span>But, further, Guo ignores the theatrical practice of cross-casting, as sometimes audiences learn more about a character and its play by not trying to imagine the actor as identical with the character. As we will explore in more detail in Part II of this book, changing the extrinsic property of the gender of the character, by the casting of men to portray Lady Bracknell in Oscar Wilde’s <i>The Importance of Being Earnest</i> (1895), helps not just the audience but also scholars and future audiences better understand the intrinsic nature of Lady Bracknell. In this case, the audience clearly will not identify the male actor portraying Lady Bracknell as identical to the character, Lady Bracknell, in Wilde’s dramatic text.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-140"></span>So what now? If Guo’s reliance on reproducing an identical to explain the necessary and sufficient conditions of theatrical acting falls short, via some of my claims and arguments, then does “re-creation” offer an alternative path forward to understand the necessary and sufficient conditions of acting? I am not sure. My goal has <span aria-label="54" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-5-target-064" role="doc-pagebreak" title="54"></span>been to describe the ontological status of both theatrical characters and the theatre. Guo is attempting to develop a theory of acting. While it is possible that “re-creation” may offer its own solution to outline the necessary and sufficient conditions of theatrical acting, it feels like a stretch, at this precise moment, to base a theory of theatrical acting off of my ontological claims. I do think, though, that both the rejection of theatrical mimesis and the objections raised, indirectly, by my work are important enough to note and should be considered when developing future theories of theatrical acting.</p></div></section></body></html><!--This epub package was generated by the OUP JYTS Application version 12.0 on 2024/08/19 22:16:06 Using  OUP Academic ePub style and the following user options: chunkLevel=chapter, addTitlePage=no, addCopyrightPage=no, addKeytermsList=no, addIllustrationsList=yes, addTablesList=yes, addVideosList=yes, addAudiosList=yes, addEndPageIllustrations=no, scaleImages=yes, addDataSmil=no, displayContribList=no, addGlossRevLink=no, addTextPopOver=no, addInlineframe=No, addInlineAudio=no, addAnswerShowHide=no, addHintShowHide=no -->