<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" /><title>4 The Nature of Theatre’s Empty Spaces</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="css/OUP_epub_kindle.css" type="text/css" /></head><body><section class="chunk chapter" data-book-part-type="chapter" epub:type="chapter" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7" role="doc-chapter">

<header><h1 class="header chapter"><span class="label chapter"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-1"></span><span aria-label="73" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-083" role="doc-pagebreak" title="73"></span>4</span> <span class="title chapter">The Nature of Theatre’s Empty Spaces</span></h1></header>
  




<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-2"></span>Thus far, I have been concerned about (1) <i>what exists</i> in theatre and (2) <i>viewing what exists</i> in the theatre. But, as stated in the Introduction, so much of theatre, conceptually, resides between the lines. Therefore, here, I want to examine the empty spaces of theatre. These empty spaces have many implications for understanding both the ontology of theatre and the epistemology of theatre.</p>
<p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-3"></span>In the most general of senses, the <i>worlds</i> of theatre are <i>utopias</i> (i.e., “nowhere[s]‌”). What are these theatrical worlds? Do they exist? Where do they exist? And how are we to understand these so-called worlds? I would answer these questions by suggesting that “theatrical places”—“<i>theatri topia</i>”—reside mostly in the spaces between the lines of a dramatic text (in traditional text/script-based theatre). It is in this space of nothing (i.e., between the lines)—or “nowhere”—where much of the theatrical world resides. This is where “nowhere,” and <i>utopia</i>, can be found: one foot in ordinary language and one foot in imagination. Pure imagination—the language of young children before they are fully shaped and bound by language—<i>can</i> imagine a world or a part of a world that simply does not, or even <i>cannot</i>, exist. For adults, however, as a reflection of our world, language is meant to make the world appear logical; language works to smooth over the incomplete and the incongruous.</p>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-sec-49"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-4"></span>Coherence and Correspondence</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-5"></span>The coherence theory of truth and the correspondence theory of truth are both, more or less, historical concepts that emerged <span aria-label="74" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-084" role="doc-pagebreak" title="74"></span>during the birth of analytic philosophy. Proponents of the coherence theory of truth, such as F. H. Bradley, opine that the truth of a statement or a belief can only be judged in terms of how well it coheres with other held statements or beliefs, and as such, truth is thought of as degrees of truth. However—and relatively speaking, in opposition—the correspondence theory of truth, with proponents such as Bertrand Russell and G. E. Moore, holds that something is true if it corresponds with a fact and/or a state of affairs. Since this book will not attempt to make any inroads into conversations surrounding coherence and/or correspondence theories of truth, I will abstain from going into more detail, as these explanations are sufficient for the purposes of this book.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-6"></span>In terms of our subject, theatre does what VGA computer monitors of the late 1980s attempted to do: make 256 colors feel, or <i>cohere</i> in a manner that felt, <i>as though</i> we are viewing millions or an infinite number of colors, as a means to smooth over the incomplete. So that the playtext coheres when on the stage, theatre requires extratextual <i>correspondence</i> to our world. “Existing” between the lines, these extratextual elements are the blank spaces of theatre that need to be filled in by performance(s). Whether or not a play corresponds to our world or coheres has much to do with what is written, but much, too, has to do with what is not written. In short, in theatre, between the lines is where all of the fun happens.</p></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-sec-50"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-7"></span>Subsumption and Distinctness</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-8"></span>In between these lines in the theatre, and related to the ideas of coherence and correspondence, it is also clear that while not explicitly stated, there are <i>other things</i> that exist, too, either as implied and/or imagined objects. We can chalk this up to the phenomenon of <i>fictional incompleteness</i>. That is, fictional incompleteness is the idea that a piece of fiction does not (or even cannot) say everything about its fictional characters and fictional world, as there are limits both with language and time, as well as space concerns. Thus far, <span aria-label="75" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-085" role="doc-pagebreak" title="75"></span>the literature on fictional incompleteness has largely dealt with <i>truths</i> that are contained in the fiction that are over and above what a <i>narrator</i> says. To deal with truths that are not made explicit by the narrator, philosophers have turned to the “explicit content” (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-222" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-222">Stokke 2021</a>: 68) found in fiction and the ideas of <i>importation</i> (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-95" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-95_3">Gendler 2000</a>; <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-222" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-222_1">Stokke 2021</a>) and, much more often, <i>generation</i> (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-239" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-239_2">Walton 1990</a>; <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-61" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-61">Davies 1996</a>; <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-247" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-247">Woodward 2011</a>; <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-115" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-115">Friend 2017</a>). Most recently Stokke has tried to demonstrate the differences between generation and importation: generation explains things that are not told by the narrator (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-222" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-222_2">Stokke 2021</a>: 67), while importation includes things not made explicit but are based upon what is told by the narrator (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-222" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-222_3">Stokke 2021</a>: 67–68). These above concepts help Stokke distinguish between the <i>fictional record</i> of a story (which is made up of what is said by the narrator as well as information that is imported) and the <i>fictional truths</i> of a story (that which is true in the fictional world) (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-222" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-222_4">Stokke 2021</a>: 68). I am engaging with Stokke, not only because the concepts of importation and generation help clarify my argumentation below, but mostly because the literature thus far, including Stokke, has focused almost exclusively on prose fiction (which contains a narrator).</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-9"></span>But with theatre, there are <i>two</i> different art forms (see, especially, <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-099" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-099_1">Hamilton 2007</a>): the dramatic text, which we read, and theatrical performance(s), which we watch. When reading the dramatic text, first, there is <i>no narrator</i>, though the stage directions can function, at times, something like a narrator setting the stage, and even giving color to the characters and/or set. Therefore, in plays without a narrator (which is the vast, vast majority), Stokke’s concept of importation is rendered moot, as extratextual information cannot come from an absent narrator. Second, in theatrical performance, much of the implicit content found in the reading process that can be generated is actually fleshed out in performance, with literal bodies and objects in real space. Thus, while the concepts of importation and generation are useful, they have not yet been adequately applied to theatre. By addressing theatre, specifically, as a unique art form (both in the reading and the watching of a play), I suggest that two <span aria-label="76" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-086" role="doc-pagebreak" title="76"></span>concepts from philosophical semantics, <i>subsumption</i> and <i>distinctness</i>, can be applied, expanded, and slightly modified, to further aid us in this quest to offer a systematic account of theatre. Subsumption refers to the idea that larger, if you will, objects and statements have smaller, if you will, parts subsumed within. Distinctness refers to the idea when objects/statements are unique and do not overlap. Given that dramatic texts only contain a limited amount of information in the form of words and statements that often refer to objects, these two concepts are vital for how plays cohere and/or correspond.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-10"></span>It may be argued that I should merely use the two concepts of importation and generation and simply apply them to the theatre. However, subsumption and distinctness are concepts used by philosophical linguists and, specifically, in <i>situation semantics</i>, where linguistic expressions are evaluated in relation to <i>partial worlds</i>, serving as an alternative to possible world semantics (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-0138" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-0138">Kratzer 2019</a>). Situation semantics presents a <i>local</i> approach (e.g., Kratzer and Arregui), whereas traditional accounts of the possible worlds thesis (e.g., Lewis and Stalnaker) take a <i>global</i> approach.<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-39" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-39"><sup>1</sup></a> Given that the dramatic text creates (or “re-creates”) a theatrical world, but does so in an incomplete, partial manner, thinking about partial worlds is, in many ways, more analogous to the world of a play, and hence it makes more sense to use the terms “subsumption” and “distinctness” from situation semantics.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-11"></span>To demonstrate the distinct (or <i>distinctness</i>) and the subsumed (or <i>subsumption</i>), let us start with the idea of <i>subsumption</i>, taking the following example about Paula and a lunatic, by Shai Cohen:</p><blockquote class="disp-quote dialogue" data-content-type="dialogue" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-disp-quote-jyts-10"><div class="speech"><p><span aria-label="speaker" class="speaker">Paula</span> <span class="p-in-sp">Yesterday evening I only painted this still life over there.</span></p> 
</div><div class="speech"><p><span aria-label="speaker" class="speaker">Lunatic</span> <span class="p-in-sp">That’s not true. You painted these apples too. (Cohen 2009: 1)</span></p> 
</div></blockquote><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-14"></span>As Cohen suggests, “In case these apples are part of this assortment of fruit, the Lunatic’s denial of Paula’s claim is false. Intuitively, <span aria-label="77" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-087" role="doc-pagebreak" title="77"></span>painting a part of something does not add anything to painting the whole; therefore, the fact that Paula painted these apples does not falsify her claim that she only painted this still life” (2009: 1). That is, the part—that is, the painting of apples—is subsumed within the larger whole—that is, the painting of the still life—where the still life contains the apples. If I suggest that “I have a heap of sand,” to play off the sorites paradox, then the idea that I have individual grains of sand in that heap is subsumed by the statement that I have a heap of sand. I would not say, therefore, “I have a heap of sand and I have grains of sand.”</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-15"></span>Related to the idea of subsumption is the idea of <i>distinctness</i>. As explained, again, by Cohen, “Assume that A in fact painted this still life, and that these apples are part of it. In this case, B is justified in denying A’s claim. Still, B’s sentence with <i>too</i> is infelicitous. In some sense, painting something and painting part of it are not <i>distinct</i> happenings” (Cohen 2009: 3). Cohen continues:</p><blockquote class="disp-quote prosequote" data-content-type="prosequote" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-disp-quote-jyts-11">
<p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-16"></span>Distinctness seems to be essential to counting. Kratzer (2007) observes, following <a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-094" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-094">Geach (1980</a>), that if there is a teapot on the table, then there is also a part of that teapot on the table which is itself a teapot, for example the one consisting of all the parts of the bigger teapot minus one millimeter of the spout. Still, we wouldn’t say that there are two teapots on the table. There must be some principle to the effect that a counting domain cannot contain overlapping individuals. (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-50" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-50">Cohen 2009</a>: 3)</p></blockquote><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-17"></span>Here, Cohen concludes the following, in simple language: “It seems then that two things are distinct if and only if they do not overlap” (2009: 3).<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-40" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-40"><sup>2</sup></a> In our case of the apples and the still life painting, the apples overlap with the apples in the still life painting. Therefore, the apples are not distinct from the still life painting. Again, the still life painting subsumes the painting of the apples. Going back to the sorites paradox, if I were to have a (single) “heap of sand” that, let us say, made up of 2,647 grains of sand, I would <span aria-label="78" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-088" role="doc-pagebreak" title="78"></span>not say that I had 2,647 heaps of sand; nor would I say, I have three heaps of sand (within my single larger heap of sand).</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-18"></span>To complicate this line of reasoning, Peter Thomas Geach brings up the problem of whether a teapot would remain a single teapot if a small piece were chipped off—would you now have two teapots or even a multiplicity of teapots within a single teapot (1980: 215)? By using a “teacup,” rather than a teapot, what if instead of just chipping off a piece of the teacup, the entire teacup handle cleanly breaks off. I would suggest that we do not have two teacups, now; however, we do—now—have a single <i>cup</i> and a single <i>handle</i>: two <i>distinct</i> parts of the teacup as a whole. This example of a teacup that can be divided into two distinct parts is analogous to properties in the theatre.</p></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-sec-51"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-19"></span>Subsumed Properties in the Theatre</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-20"></span>It is easy to understand how a grain of sand can be subsumed within a heap of sand or how a painting of an apple is subsumed within a still life painting. A grain of sand or a painted apple are <i>constituent parts</i> of, respectively, a heap of sand or a still life painting. However, theatre presents a slightly different model of subsumption than the model established by our still life painting or heap of sand examples. In theatre, with so much of the art form, itself, not specified in the art, I claim that subsumption does not only describe constituent parts of a whole, but that, in theatre, most of the <i>properties</i> of a theatrical character (and theatrical world) exist, if you will, via <i>subsumption</i>. We can similarly say that the subsumed properties of a theatrical character or a theatrical world are <i>derived</i> properties, coming from within the <i>complex</i> properties and situations that are specified in the text. That is, to return to Stokke’s language, the explicit content of a play, its spoken words/speeches, does not elucidate many properties associated with the characters. <span aria-label="79" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-089" role="doc-pagebreak" title="79"></span>Therefore, the majority of properties of a theatrical character do not come from the importation of information from a narrator, as a narrator does not exist in theatre (with some rare exceptions). Instead, most of the properties of a theatrical character come from within the spoken words/explicit content. The properties of a theatrical character, then, are subsumed <i>within the explicit content</i>. That is, the concept of importation does not specify where the extratextual information comes from (or, rather, importation is a broad term that covers the many ways that extratextual information comes into being, whether implicitly, or not even implicitly, from the narrator); whereas subsumption more accurately describes in the theatre where nondistinct properties emerge as subsumption implies that the information is <i>contained within</i> the object(s) being examined.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-21"></span>I claim that there are three <i>types of properties</i> associated with theatrical characters and worlds: <i>distinct properties</i>, <i>subsumed properties</i>, and <i>truthful properties</i>. The case of theatre presents some special issues for the philosophy of art, as there are some properties—like Hamlet’s brilliance, for example—that are (a) widely accepted but (b) perhaps more challenging to see how they might be derived from the explicit. These properties are the subsumed properties that are found within the text that are not explicitly stated as distinct properties. That is, theatrical characters have properties that go beyond what is in the text, and these properties are derived—via entailment, actual generic connections, and/or whole/parts connections—from the text in combination with facts about the actual world. Whether or not we can call these processes importation or generation, in trying to capture the various ways in which further, unstated facts about fictions can be true of them, we can think about what is derived from certain distinct facts as such: A is F can generate further facts, such as A’s being G. One way is that being F can <i>entail</i> being G; or another way is that it can be a <i>generic</i> fact, such as F (humans) are G (have ears).</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-22"></span><span aria-label="80" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-090" role="doc-pagebreak" title="80"></span>Both entailment and generic facts aid in thinking about distinct and subsumed properties of a theatrical character in theatre. That is, as I have suggested elsewhere, Hamlet is the sum total of everything he says and does in the play (<a role="doc-biblioref" class="link_bibr" href="workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146" id="Ref_workid-USAC0029927-ref-list-1-ref-146_10">Bennett 2017</a>: 32). As such, we can think of every single thing that Hamlet says and does <i>as explicit content in the dramatic text</i>. To demonstrate this, let us think more about the play <i>Hamlet</i>. We can say that there is the distinct character, Hamlet, or we can also say that there is the distinct place, Elsinore. Now, we know many distinct facts about Hamlet, for example that he is a prince and that he dies at the end of the play. We also have every reason to believe that Hamlet is human, and presumably, then, humans also have two ears and a nose. However, do we know anything specific about the shape of Hamlet’s ears or his nose? No, but the fact that the actor who plays Hamlet ought to have two ears and a nose is subsumed within the fact that he is a human. That is, there are subsumed <i>generic</i> properties that are derived other distinct properties (e.g., <i>having-two-ears</i> due to <i>being-human</i>). Similarly, while we observe “a platform before the castle,” we are not told that the nature of the columns or the thickness of the walls that that hold up this “platform,” but we do know that such walls or columns exists. These elements, then, such as Hamlet’s nose and ears and the walls or columns that hold up the platform before the castle, are <i>subsumed within the play</i> and will or can appear on the stage: either they will be present by necessity (as humans have noses and ears, the actor playing Hamlet will also have two ears and a nose), or they can be present (as in whether the walls will be visible that hold up the platform). But to add to the complexity here, Hamlet is, arguably, quite brilliant. But where is this in the play? <i>Being-brilliant</i> is never attributed to Hamlet in the play. Since nothing explicitly ties Hamlet with the property of <i>being-brilliant</i>, we must suggest that the brilliance within the distinct and stated properties attributed to Hamlet is <i>entailed</i> within what he says and does (i.e., <i>being-brilliant</i> is subsumed within what Hamlet says and does).</p></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-sec-52"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-23"></span><span aria-label="81" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-091" role="doc-pagebreak" title="81"></span>The Role of the Actor/Director in Theatrical Coherence and Subsumption</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-24"></span>Much of the truth of the play comes through the actors on stage. The actor must consider distinct facts—or rather, distinct events and/or things—and figure out what is subsumed within. The director must weigh those distinct events against the desire to form a cohesive narrative: the idea that theatrical characters are participants in the world of the play “suggests not a linear externally-imposed narrative that each character fits into in their own role in the narrative, but a collection of internally-derived ensemble personal narratives, the latter being how real life operates.”<a role="doc-noteref" class="endNote" href="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13.xhtml#workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-41" id="fn_workid-USAC0029927-book-part-13-fn-41"><sup>3</sup></a> The task for the directors and actors is to take these distinct facts, made most obvious, for example, in a history play, and figure out what is subsumed within. This is how theatre coheres.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-25"></span>Thinking about a character’s distinct properties and their subsumed properties in the dramatic text, then, offers the director and actor an entirely new way to cast and embody a character, without thinking as much about necessary strict adhesion to a dramatic text. That is not to say, anything goes (or <i>should</i> go) in theatre and is allowable and/or is truthful to the dramatic text, but that thinking about distinctness and subsumption help thread the needle between something that is necessarily <i>true</i> versus something <i>truthful</i>, if you will, which mimics the difference between a fictional character being true versus a fictional character embodying something truthful. In Oscar Wilde’s play <i>The Importance of Being Earnest</i> (1895), for example (and this will be discussed in detail later in this book), it is <i>not true</i> that Lady Bracknell has a male body, but when played by a male actor, this embodiment says something <i>truthful</i> about Lady Bracknell.</p></div>
<div class="sec" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-sec-53"><header><h2 class="header sec hLevel2"><span class="title sec"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-26"></span>In Sum</span></h2></header><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-27"></span>This book has made, and will continue in Part II to make, a number of related assertions about (a) theatre as an art form; (b) properties <span aria-label="82" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-092" role="doc-pagebreak" title="82"></span>associated with theatrical characters and theatrical worlds; and (c) the difference between something <i>being true</i> in theatre versus something <i>being truthful</i> in the theatre. First, I claim that there are three types of properties associated with theatrical characters and theatrical worlds: distinct properties, subsumed properties, and truthful properties:</p><div class="list number" data-list-type="number" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-list-jyts-6"><ol class="list number autoLabelled" data-list-type="number" epub:type="list" role="list" start="1" type="1"><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-28"></span><i>Distinct properties</i> are found explicitly in the dramatic text and are necessarily <i>true</i> (e.g., Hamlet is the Prince of Denmark).</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-29"></span><i>Subsumed properties</i> are derived from the distinct properties that are explicit in the dramatic text, and these properties, which can be true, are derived either</span>

<ol class="list alpha-lower autoLabelled" data-list-type="alpha-lower" epub:type="list" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-list-jyts-7" role="list" start="1" type="a"><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-30"></span>by <i>entailment</i> (e.g., Hamlet is human),</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-31"></span>by entailment in combination with other <i>generic facts</i> (e.g., Hamlet has two ears and a nose), or</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-32"></span>by <i>interpretation</i> (and/or <i>triangulation</i>) of available distinct facts (e.g., Hamlet is brilliant).</span>
</li></ol></li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-33"></span><i>Truthful properties</i> are a type of subsumed properties that may or may not be <i>truly</i> applied to a character (i.e., they may even be <i>falsely</i> applied to a character) and also may not be derived from any of the above ways, but yet these subsumed properties speak to something <i>truthful</i> about theatrical characters and/or theatrical worlds (e.g., Lady Bracknell can best be understood as a “domineering,” <i>Alpha male</i>, and played by a male actor conveys this better than if played by a female actor). A truthful property contains at least one truth, even if the overall state of that object is false. These properties may be thought of as <i>truthful suggestions</i> and are derived</span>

<ol class="list alpha-lower autoLabelled" data-list-type="alpha-lower" epub:type="list" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-list-jyts-8" role="list" start="1" type="a"><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-67"></span>by relations in the text that are weaker than entailment, namely <i>textual assertions that do not necessarily fit the actual world</i> (e.g., The Ghost of King Hamlet should be about the same height as a human), or</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-68"></span>by <i>truthful suggestions</i> that are not implied by any of the above ways but simply <i>make sense</i>, if you will, or <i>can</i> <span aria-label="83" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-093" role="doc-pagebreak" title="83"></span>make sense (e.g., Richard III must have been bullied in his childhood).</span>
</li></ol></li></ol></div><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-104"></span>Second, there are two processes/types of objects that exemplify these three properties that come into being by one or both of two ways in the theatre: “re-creation” and/or the “re-positioning” of objects/“re-positioned” objects:</p><div class="list number" data-list-type="number" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-list-jyts-9"><ol class="list number autoLabelled" data-list-type="number" epub:type="list" role="list" start="1" type="1"><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-105"></span><i>Re-creation</i> describes both the process and the abstract object that comes into being through a recombination and/or unique cluster of actually existing, concrete and/or abstract objects, where we can call the resultant object <i>a re-created object</i>.</span>
</li><li class="list-item" epub:type="list-item" role="listitem"><span class="listItem-para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-106"></span><i>Re-positioning</i> describes the process by which actually existing objects are viewed/presented in a manner that explores novel relations among its constituent parts. The resultant object that is viewed/presented is a <i>re-positioned object</i>.</span>
</li></ol></div><p class="para"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-107"></span>Both of these processes and the objects that come into being through these processes are expressed through one or more of the three following figurative expressions: (1) metaphor, (2) representation, and/or (3) presentation.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-108"></span>Through its investigation of these figurative expressions, <i>Between the Lines: A Philosophy of Theatre</i> posits that theatre and performance serve the supremely important function, both individually and societally, of testing out unknown situations, by investigating what might, what could, and what could not be the case. By setting up the (fictional/fictionalized) characters and contexts that are contrary to the facts of the world (i.e., the counterfactual antecedent), the playwright allows us to see this (unknown) situation play out according to (known) human nature. Because the conceptual spaces between the lines highlight the <i>variables</i> found in theatre, theatrical performance allows us to test out not only what is possible but also what is <i>true</i> in <i>our</i> world.</p><p class="para indented" data-content-type="indented"><span class="para-id" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-109"></span><span aria-label="84" class="page" epub:type="pagebreak" id="workid-USAC0029927-book-part-7-target-094" role="doc-pagebreak" title="84"></span>This book examines the <i>input</i> of performance and, more specifically, the conceptual spaces of performance: not only what is implied or tenuously exists (such as offstage characters or offstage actions or offstage subplots and context) but the empty spaces of the dramatic text (and some performance) that give rise to performance’s variability. In other words, instead of thinking solely about what is written, I also want to look at <i>what is not written</i>, and what the unwritten does for/to performance. That is, the dramatic text, while admittingly also giving guidance and direction for the production in the form of stage directions, exists mostly as the auditory part of performance, from whence only one part of the intellectual thrust of a theatrical performance derives. Ultimately, however, it is in the search and understanding of these metaphorical blank spaces that theatre breeds and encourages curious behaviors, which serve individual and societal growth and are much needed in this so-called post-truth world.</p></div></section></body></html><!--This epub package was generated by the OUP JYTS Application version 12.0 on 2024/08/19 22:16:06 Using  OUP Academic ePub style and the following user options: chunkLevel=chapter, addTitlePage=no, addCopyrightPage=no, addKeytermsList=no, addIllustrationsList=yes, addTablesList=yes, addVideosList=yes, addAudiosList=yes, addEndPageIllustrations=no, scaleImages=yes, addDataSmil=no, displayContribList=no, addGlossRevLink=no, addTextPopOver=no, addInlineframe=No, addInlineAudio=no, addAnswerShowHide=no, addHintShowHide=no -->