<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="fr" lang="fr">

<head>
  <title>Changement de langue en français FR vers EN</title>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css" />
</head>

<body>
  <section id="reading-1512" class="test">

    <h1 xml:lang="en" lang="en"><span class="test-id">reading-1512</span> <span class="test-title">TTS Change Languages Automatically (main language code), French to English</span></h1>
    <p xml:lang="en" lang="en" class="desc">Instructions are in English. Screen readers and other Assistive Technology that use TTS should be able to detect language changes marked in XHTML content. A screen reader should be able to be configured to automatically change the TTS speaking language when it encounters a language change in the XHTML. 
    In some cases available voices are dependant of the operating system. to perform this test, tester must be sure that the following languages are installed on his computer:</p>
      <ul xml:lang="en" lang="en">
        <li>English</li>
        <li>French</li>
      </ul>
   
   <p xml:lang="en" lang="en"> Configure your screen reader or other Assistive Technology to automatically change the TTS language. Read the phrases below line by line and continuously. The test passes if the TTS language changes as it encounters the language change.</p>
   
   <p xml:lang="en" lang="en" class="eval">Indicate Pass or Fail.</p>

<h2 xml:lang="en" lang="en">Language Change Test</h2>

<p>En français "c'est un très bon livre ; <span xml:lang="en" lang="en">"In English, "this is a very good book"</span>.<span xml:lang="en-US" lang="en-US">"In American English now, "this is a very good book"</span></p>

<h2 xml:lang="en" lang="en">Language Change Test two + two letters (main and variant)</h2>

<p><span xml:lang="en-US" lang="en-US">"In American English, "this is a very good book"</span>. ; In french Canadian, <span xml:lang="fr-ca" lang="fr-ca">"c'est un très bon livre"</span>.</p>

<p xml:lang="en" lang="en">End of language change testing.</p>

</section>
</body>

</html>
